>> Ifill: OD EGOVENING,
I'M GWEN IFILL.
IFILL. >> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
>> Woodruff: AND
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WOODRUFF. >> Ifill:
ON THE NEWSHOUR
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT, A MOMENT OF SILENCE
AFTER A FATAL SHOOTING
AFTER A FATAL
SHOOTING BROADCAST.
BROADCAST. THE VIRAL
NATURE OF VIOLENCE AND
THE VIRAL NATURE OF VIOLENCE
AND HOW TECHNOLOGY CAN SHAPE
HOW TECHNOLOGY CAN
SHAPE TRAGEDY.
TRAGEDY. >> Woodruff:
ALSO AHEAD THIS
>> Woodruff: ALSO AHEAD THIS
THURSDAY, WE CONTINUE OUR LOOK
KAATTRINA, TEN YEARS LATER.
ACTOR WENDELL PIERCE ON HIS ROLE
IN REBUILDING HIS COMMUNITY, AND
TURNING THE DEVASTATED STREETS
OF NEW ORLEANS INTO A STAGE.
>> WHAT WAS GREAT ABOUT THIS
>> WHAT WAS GREAT ABOUT
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD IS BACK.
NEIGHBORHOOD IS BACK. WHICH
IS FAMILIES, CHURCHES,
WHICH IS FAMILIES, CHURCHES,
HOMES FILLED WITH HOMEOWNERS.
HOMES FILLED WITH
HOMEOWNERS. SCHOOLS.
SCHOOLS. ALL THE STUFF
THAT MAKES FOR A
ALL THE STUFF THAT MAKES
FOR A WONDERFUL LIFE.
WONDERFUL LIFE. >> Ifill:
PLUS, FROM FIELD TO
>> Ifill: PLUS, FROM FIELD TO
MARKET, A NEW GENERATION OF
ENTREPRENEURS IN RWANDA BRING
TECH SOLUTIONS TO AGRICULTURE.
>> Woodruff: ALL AT ATHND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: A RAFT OF CONSUMER,
BUSINESS AND GOVERNMENT SPENDING
PUSHED U.S. ECONOMIC GROWTH INTO
BETTER-THAN-EXPECTED TERRITORY.
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT EXPANDED
AT AN ANNUAL RATE OF 3.7% FROM
APRIL TO JUNE, ACCORDING TO THE
APRIL TO JUNE, ACCORDING TO
THE COMMERCE DEPARTMENT.
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT. THAT'S
MORE THAN A PERCENTAGE
THAT'S MORE THAN A PERCENTAGE
POINT HIGHER THAN INITIAL
POINT HIGHER THAN
INITIAL ESTIMATES.
ESTIMATES. FOR COMPARISON,
JAPAN'S ECONOMY
FOR COMPARISON, JAPAN'S ECONOMY
SHRANK AND GERMANY AND THE U.K.
GREW BY LESS THAN A PERCENT FOR
GREW BY LESS THAN A PERCENT
FOR THE SAME TIME PERIOD.
THE SAME TIME PERIOD. >>
Ifill: STOCKS IN CHINA
>> Ifill: STOCKS IN CHINA
REBOUNDED TODAY AND SHOOK OFF A
REBOUNDED TODAY AND SHOOK OFF
A SIX-DAY SLUMP TRIGGERED BY
SIX-DAY SLUMP TRIGGERED BY
CONCERNS OVER THE HEALTH OF THE
CONCERNS OVER THE HEALTH
OF THE CHINESE ECONOMY.
CHINESE ECONOMY. THE TWO
MAJOR CHINESE INDICES
THE TWO MAJOR CHINESE INDICES
SURGED BY MORE THAN 5%, SNAPPING
A LOSING STREAK THAT HAD RIPPLED
AROUND THE FINANCIAL WORLD.
OTHER ASIAN AND EUROPEAN MARKETS
OTHER ASIAN AND EUROPEAN
MARKETS FOLLOWED SUIT.
FOLLOWED SUIT. >>
Woodruff: THE ASIAN RALLY
>> Woodruff: THE ASIAN RALLY
TENEXDED TO WALL STREET, HELPED
ALONG BY THE ENCOURAGING U.S.
ALONG BY THE ENCOURAGING
U.S. ECONOMIC NUMBERS.
ECONOMIC NUMBERS. THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 369 POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE
GAINED 369 POINTS TO
CLOSE ABOVE 16,600.
16,600. THE NASDAQ
ROSE 115 POINTS,
THE NASDAQ ROSE 115 POINTS, AND
THE S&P 500 ADDED 47 POINTS.
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED 47 POINTS.
FOR OIL IT WAS ALSO A GOOD DAY,
THE BIGGEST ONE-DAY RALLY IN
THE BIGGEST ONE-DAY RALLY
IN NEARLY SEVEN YEARS.
NEARLY SEVEN YEARS. U.S.
OIL ROSE BY NEARLY $4 A
U.S. OIL ROSE BY NEARLY $4 A
BARREL, MORE THAN 10%, TO
BARREL, MORE THAN
10%, TO $42.56.
$42.56. >> Ifill:
IN IRAQ TODAY, AN
>> Ifill: IN IRAQ TODAY, AN
ISLAMISTATC E MILITANT KILLED
TWO GENERALS AND THREE SOLDIERS
TWO GENERALS AND THREE
SOLDIERS IN A SUICIDE BOMBING.
IN A SUICIDE BOMBING. A VEHICLE
FILLED WITH EXPLOSIVES
A VEHICLE FILLED WITH EXPLOSIVES
HIT THE TROOPS AS THEY ADVANCED
TOWARDS THE ISIS-CONTROLLED CITY
OF RAMADI, IN ANBAR PROVINCE.
A FUNERAL PROCESSION FOR THE
GENERALS PASSED THROUGH BAGHDAD
GENERALS PASSED THROUGH
BAGHDAD THIS AFTERNOON.
THIS AFTERNOON. IRAQI
PRIME MINISTER AL-ABADI
IRAQI PRIME MINISTER AL-ABADI
WALKED BEHIND THE COFFINS AND
WALKED BEHIND THE COFFINS
AND VOWED TO DEFEAT ISIS.
VOWED TO DEFEAT ISIS. THE
ISLAMIC STATE CLAIMED THE
THE ISLAMIC STATE CLAIMED THE
ATTACK WAS REVENGE FOR THE
RECENT KILLING OF A SENIOR
RECENT KILLING OF A
SENIOR MILITANT FIGHTER.
>> Ifill: AUTHORITIES IN CHINA
HAVE DETAINED 11 PEOPLE FOR
THEIR ROLE IN THE MASSIVE
WAREHOUSE EXPLOSION THAT KILLED
WAREHOUSE EXPLOSION THAT
KILLED AT LEAST 145 PEOPLE.
AT LEAST 145 PEOPLE. THEY'RE
ACCUSED OF NEGLIGENCE
THEY'RE ACCUSED OF NEGLIGENCE
AND ABUSE OF POWER IN THE
COUNTRY'S WORST INDUSTRIAL
DISASTER IN RECENT YEARS.
DISASTER IN RECENT YEARS. THE
AUGUST 12 EXPLOSION AT A
THE AUGUST 12 EXPLOSION AT A
CHEMICAL SITE DEVASTATED THE
PORT CITY OF TIANJIN AND LEFT
115 POLICE AND FIREFIGHTERS
AMONG THE DEAD AND MISSING.
>> Woodruff: A CLOUD OF SMOKY
AIR HUNG OVER MUCH OF THE
NORTHWESTERN U.S. TODAY FROM
ABOUT 50 LARGE WILDFIRES THAT
ABOUT 50 LARGE WILDFIRES
THAT ARE NOW BURNING.
ARE NOW BURNING. THE
NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
IMPOSED AIR QUALITY ALERTS FOR
PARTS OF WASHINGTON, OREGON,
PARTS OF WASHINGTON,
OREGON, IDAHO AND MONTANA.
IDAHO AND MONTANA. A FIRE
IN OKANOGAN, WASHINGTON
A FIRE IN OKANOGAN, WASHINGTON
HAS NOW GROWN TO ALMOST 438
SQUARE MILES, MAKING IT THE
LARGEST FIRE EVER RECORDED IN
LARGEST FIRE EVER
RECORDED IN THE STATE.
THE STATE. FIRE OFFICIALS
ARE WORKING HARD
FIRE OFFICIALS ARE WORKING
HARD TO CONTAIN IT.
TO CONTAIN IT. >>
CONTAINMENT REMAINS AT 17%
>> CONTAINMENT REMAINS AT 17%
AND WE HAVE NEARLY 1,800 PEOPLE
FROM 33 STATES HERE SUPPORTING
THE FIREFIGHTING EFFORTS ON THE
THE FIREFIGHTING
EFFORTS ON THE GROUND.
GROUND. OUR PRIORITIES
HAVE NOT CHANGED
OUR PRIORITIES HAVE NOT CHANGED
IN TERMS OF OUR OBJECTIVES.
IN TERMS OF OUR OBJECTIVES. THE
SAFETY OF THE PUBLIC AND OUR
THE SAFETY OF THE PUBLIC AND OUR
FIREFIGHTERS REMAINS OUR NUMBER
FIREFIGHTERS REMAINS OUR
NUMBER ONE CONCERN.
ONE CONCERN. >> Woodruff:
A CONTINGENT OF
>> Woodruff: A CONTINGENT OF
FIREFIGHTERS FROM AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND WERE DEPLOYED TODAY
TO HELP BATTLE THE WASHINGTON
TO HELP BATTLE THE
WASHINGTON WILDFIRE.
WILDFIRE. >> Ifill:
NEW DATA RELEASED
>> Ifill: NEW DATA RELEASED
TODAY SHOWS THAT ALTHOUGH THE
VAST MAJORITY OF AMERICAN
CHILDREN ARE VACCINATED, THOSE
WHO ARE NOT STILL POSE A BIG
THREAT TO PUBLIC HEALTH.
THREAT TO PUBLIC HEALTH. A
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
A CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
AND PREVENTION STUDY FOUND THAT
LESS THAN TWO PERCENT OF PARENTS
NATIONWIDE ASKED FOR VACCINATION
EXEMPTIONS LAST SCHOOL YEAR.
EXEMPTIONS LAST SCHOOL YEAR. BUT
IN CERTAIN STATES THE NUMBER
BUT IN CERTAIN STATES THE NUMBER
IS MUCH HIGHER, AS HIGH AS 6.5%
IS MUCH HIGHER, AS HIGH
AS 6.5% PERCENT IN IDAHO.
PERCENT IN IDAHO. THE
REPORT FOLLOWS A MEASLES
THE REPORT FOLLOWS A MEASLES
OUTBREAK IN CALIFORNIA THAT
SICKENED MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE
SICKENED MORE THAN 100
PEOPLE EARLIER THIS YEAR.
EARLIER THIS YEAR. STILL
TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
HOW VIDEO OF A DISTURBING CRIME
HOW VIDEO OF A
DISTURBING CRIME SPREAD.
SPREAD. WALL STREET
RALLIES AFTER THE
WALL STREET RALLIES AFTER THE
FEDERAL RESERVE HINTS HESITATION
ON RAISING INTEREST RATES.
EXTENDING MINIMUM WAGE LAWS FOR
EXTENDING MINIMUM WAGE LAWS
FOR MORE WORKERS IN SEATTLE.
MORE WORKERS IN
SEATTLE. AND MUCH MORE.
>> Ifill: FOR A SECOND DAY, A
SHOCKING, TELEVISED MURDER IS
SHOCKING, TELEVISED MURDER
IS RAISING A WIDE ARRAY OF
RAISING A WIDE ARRAY OF
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE PERPETRATOR,
AND ABOUT HOW QUICKLY HORRIFIC
IMAGES CAN INFECT THE NATIONAL
IMAGES CAN INFECT THE
NATIONAL BLOODSTREAM ONLINE.
BLOODSTREAM ONLINE. WE'LL
HAVE OUR OWN CONVERSATION
WE'LL HAVE OUR OWN CONVERSATION
ABOUT SOME OF THIS IN A MOMENT.
BUT FIRST, MORE OF THIS DAY'S
REACTIONS TO THE VIRGINIA
REACTIONS TO THE
VIRGINIA SHOOTINGS.
SHOOTINGS. >> PLEASE
JOIN US NOW FOR A
>> PLEASE JOIN US NOW FOR
A MOMENT OF SILENCE.
MOMENT OF SILENCE. >>
Ifill: WDBJ IN ROANOKE,
>> Ifill: WDBJ IN ROANOKE,
VIRGINIA PAUSED THIS MORNING TO
REMEMBER CAMERAMAN ADAM WARD AND
REPORTER ALISON PARKER AT THE
EXACT MOMENT THE TWO WERE SHOT
AND KILLED YESTERDAY DURING AN
AND KILLED YESTERDAY DURING
AN ON-AIR INTERVIEW.
ON-AIR INTERVIEW. THEIR
KILLER, 41-YEAR-OLD VESTER
THEIR KILLER, 41-YEAR-OLD VESTER
LEE FLANAGAN, WAS A FORMER
REPORTER FOR THE STATION.
REPORTER FOR THE STATION. HE
WAS KNOWN ON-AIR AS BRYCE
HE WAS KNOWN ON-AIR AS BRYCE
WILLIAMS AND WAS FIRED FROM THE
WILLIAMS AND WAS FIRED
FROM THE STATION IN 2013.
STATION IN 2013. >> HE
WAS AN ANGRY MAN. WE
>> HE WAS AN ANGRY MAN. WE
DIDN'T KNOW THAT WHEN WE HIRED
DIDN'T KNOW THAT
WHEN WE HIRED HIM.
HIM. >> Ifill: WBDJ
PRESIDENT JEFF
>> Ifill: WBDJ
PRESIDENT JEFF MARKS:
MARKS: >> WHEN
SOMETHING WAS AMISS IN
>> WHEN SOMETHING WAS AMISS
IN HIS PERFORMANCE, HE WOULD
HIS PERFORMANCE, HE WOULD
DEFLECT IT ONTO OTHERS AND
BLAMED OTHER PEOPLE FOR ALL OF
BLAMED OTHER PEOPLE FOR
ALL OF HIS ISSUES.
HIS ISSUES. AND THEN
HE BLAMED BACK BY
AND THEN HE BLAMED BACK BY
MAKING THESE WILD ACCUSATIONS
ABOUT RACIAL INSENSITIVITY AND
ALL OF THAT AND IT'S JUST NOT
ALL OF THAT AND
IT'S JUST NOT TRUE.
TRUE. >> Ifill:
IN THE HOURS THAT
>> Ifill: IN THE HOURS THAT
FOLLOWED THE ATTACK, FLANAGAN
FAXED A 23-PAGE DOCUMENT TO ABC
FAXED A 23-PAGE
DOCUMENT TO ABC NEWS.
NEWS. IN IT, HE SAID
HIS ACTIONS WERE
IN IT, HE SAID HIS ACTIONS WERE
TRIGGERED BY THE APPARENT RACISM
OF DYLANN ROOF, A WHITE MAN WHO
HAS BEEN CHARGED WITH THE MURDER
OF NINE BLACK WORSHIPPERS DURING
BIBLE STUDY AT A CHARLESTON
CHURCH THIS JUNE.
CHURCH THIS JUNE. FLANAGAN
ALSO CLAIMED HE HAD
FLANAGAN ALSO CLAIMED HE HAD
BEEN SUBJECTED TO RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION, SEXUAL
HARASSMENT AND BULLYING AT WORK.
USING HIS ON-AIR MONIKER,
LANAGAN POSTED FOOTAGE HE FILMED
OF THE SHOOTING TO FACEBOOK AND
OF THE SHOOTING TO
FACEBOOK AND TWITTER.
TWITTER. BOTH ACCOUNTS
WERE LATER TAKEN
BOTH ACCOUNTS WERE
LATER TAKEN DOWN.
DOWN. AFTER FLEEING
THE SCENE, POLICE
AFTER FLEEING THE SCENE, POLICE
SAID FLANAGAN COMMITTED SUICIDE
YESTERDAY AFTERNOON ON A
YESTERDAY AFTERNOON ON
A VIRGINIA HIGHWAY.
VIRGINIA HIGHWAY. TODAY,
ALISON PARKER'S FATHER,
TODAY, ALISON PARKER'S FATHER,
ANDY, PLEDGED TO WORK FOR
STRICTER GUN CONTROL.
STRICTER GUN CONTROL. >> I'M
GOING TO DO EVERYTHING I
>> I'M GOING TO DO EVERYTHING I
CAN NOW TO MAKE SURE HER LIFE
CAN NOW TO MAKE SURE
HER LIFE HAS MEANING.
HAS MEANING. THAT
PEOPLE REMEMBER HER AND
THAT PEOPLE REMEMBER HER AND
THAT WE DON'T HAVE ANOTHER
NEWTOWN, WE DON'T HAVE ANOTHER
MOVIE THEATRE SHOOTING, THAT WE
DON'T HAVE ANOTHER CHARLESTON.
THE POLITICIANS HAVE GOT TO
STAND UP TO THE NRA AND CLOSE
SOME OF THESE LOOPHOLES SO THAT
CRAZY PEOPLE DON'T GET GUNS.
>> Ifill: AT ONE POINT
>> Ifill: AT ONE POINT FLANAGAN
WAS SENT TO AN EMPLOYEE
FLANAGAN WAS SENT TO AN EMPLOYEE
COUNSELING PROGRAM BECAUSE OF
PERFORMANCE AND BEHAVIORAL
PERFORMANCE AND
BEHAVIORAL ISSUES.
ISSUES. EVEN AS HE
SPOKE, A MAKESHIFT
EVEN AS HE SPOKE, A MAKESHIFT
MEMORIAL CONTINUED TO FLOW
NEARBY AS FRIENDS, VIEWERS AND
COWORKERS PAID TRIBUTE TO THE
COWORKERS PAID TRIBUTE TO
THE MURDERED JOURNALIST.
MURDERED JOURNALIST. WE LOOK
AT WHAT MADE THIS LATEST
WE LOOK AT WHAT MADE THIS LATEST
SHOOTING SADLY FAMILIAR AND
SHOCKINGLY DIFFERENT WITH LANCE
ULANOFF, CHIEF CORRESPONDENT &
EDITOR-AT-LARGE AT MASHABLE, THE
DIGITAL MEDIA WEBSITE, BARRY
ROSENFELD IS A PROFESSOR OF
PSYCHOLOGY AND DIRECTOR OF
CLINICAL TRAINING AT FORDHAM
UNIVERSTITY, AND DEBORAH POTTER
IS THE FOUNDER OF NEWSLAB, A
NON-PROFIT JOURNALISM RESOURCE
NON-PROFIT JOURNALISM
RESOURCE CENTER.
CENTER. SHE IS ALSO
A FORMER TELEVISION
SHE IS ALSO A FORMER TELEVISION
NEWS CORRESPONDENT AND ANCHOR.
LANCE ULANOFF, WAS IT ONLY A
MATTER OF TIME BEFORE SOMEONE
LIVE TWEETED SOMETHING SO
LIVE TWEETED SOMETHING
SO HORRIFIC?
HORRIFIC? >> YEAH,
UNFORTUNATELY, IIN.
>> YEAH, UNFORTUNATELY, IIN.
WE ARE NEVER WITHOUT OUR
WE ARE NEVER WITHOUT
OUR TECHNOLOGY.
TECHNOLOGY. IT'S AROUND US.
IT'S AROUND US. IT
PERMEATES OUR LIVES.
IT PERMEATES OUR LIVES. WE
HAVE POWERFUL COMPUTERS IN
WE HAVE POWERFUL COMPUTERS IN
OUR POCKET, AND WE HAVE BEEN,
YOU KNOW, WE ARE TRAINING OUR
CHILDREN FROM THE YOUNGEST AGE
THE USE SOCIAL MEDIA, SO IT'S
SOMETHING THAT COMES VERY
NATURALLY TO US, AND WHAT I
NOTICED AS PART OF THIS, THIS
HORRIFYING CRIME, IS THAT THE
USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA SEEMED TO BE
KIND OF A NATURAL ACT HAPPENING
AS I WAS DOING THESE THINGS.
AS I WAS DOING THESE THINGS. I
DID NOT FEEL THAT PART OF IT
I DID NOT FEEL THAT PART OF
IT DIDN'T FEEL PARTICULARLY
DIDN'T FEEL PARTICULARLY
PREMEDITATED.
PREMEDITATED. >> Ifill:
WELL, NOT ONLY HIS
>> Ifill: WELL, NOT ONLY
HIS ACT BUT THAT PEOPLE
ACT BUT THAT PEOPLE
INSTINCTIVELY SHARED WHAT HE PUT
INSTINCTIVELY SHARED
WHAT HE PUT UP ONLINE.
UP ONLINE. >> IT IS,
BUT IT'S FUNNY,
>> IT IS, BUT IT'S FUNNY,
BECAUSE I LOOK AT THIS GUY,
FLANAGAN, AND I THINK TO MYSELF,
HEINOUS CRIME, WHO WAS NOT IN
HIS RIGHT MIND, AND USED SOCIAL
MEDIA IN A WAY THATTER THE --
MEDIA IN A WAY THATTER THE
-- THAT TERRIFIES ME.
THAT TERRIFIES ME. THE
PEOPLE WHO RESHARED WHAT
THE PEOPLE WHO RESHARED WHAT
THEY SAW, I UNDERSTAND THE
IMPULSE BECAUSE YOU SEE
SOMETHING, IT'S NEWSWORTHY, THAT
IS WHAT WE DO IN THIS MODERN
AGE, BUT I AM SURPRISED THAT
THEY DIDN'T STOP FOR A MOMENT
AND REALIZE AND THINK ABOUT WHAT
AND REALIZE AND THINK ABOUT
WHAT THEY WERE DOING.
THEY WERE DOING. AND THAT'S
KIND OF WHERE I THINK
AND THAT'S KIND OF WHERE I THINK
WE PROBABLY HAVE TO TAKE A
WE PROBABLY HAVE TO
TAKE A CLOSER LOOK.
CLOSER LOOK. >> Ifill:
DEBORAH POTTER,
>> Ifill: DEBORAH POTTER,
LET'S PICK UP ON THAT.
GIVEN WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT
TECHNOLOGY AND THE EASE WITH
WHICH WE CAN DISSEMINATE THIS
KIND OF INFORMATION, WHAT IS THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR COVERAGE?
RESPONSIBILITY FOR COVERAGE? >>
THE POINT HAS BEEN MADE THAT
>> THE POINT HAS BEEN MADE THAT
JOURNALISTS ARE NOT THE ONLY ONE
SHARING INFORMATION ANYMORE.
SHARING INFORMATION ANYMORE. SO
FOR NEWS ORGANIZATIONS, THERE
SO FOR NEWS ORGANIZATIONS, THERE
WERE VERY DETAILED CONVERSATIONS
WERE VERY DETAILED
CONVERSATIONS YESTERDAY.
YESTERDAY. SHOULD
WE AIR THIS VIDEO?
SHOULD WE AIR THIS VIDEO?
WHAT SHOULD WE DO WITH IT?
>> Ifill: IT WAS IN OUR NEWS
>> Ifill: IT WAS IN
OUR NEWS ROOMING.
ROOMING. >> BUT IT
DOESN'T REALLY MATTER
>> BUT IT DOESN'T REALLY MATTER
BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO FIND IT IN THEIR OWN
TWITTER STREAM, ON THEIR OWN
TWITTER STREAM, ON THEIR
OWN FACEBOOK PAGE.
FACEBOOK PAGE. OTHER
PEOPLE ARE SHARING IT.
OTHER PEOPLE ARE SHARING IT. I
THINK FOR NEWS ORGANIZATIONS,
I THINK FOR NEWS ORGANIZATIONS,
WE'RE HAVING THE SAME
CONVERSATION WE'VE ALWAYS HAD.
WHAT'S THE RESPONSIBLE THING TO
WHAT'S THE RESPONSIBLE
THING TO DO.
DO. BUT THAT HORSE
IS ALREADY OUT OF
BUT THAT HORSE IS ALREADY
OUT OF THE BARN.
THE BARN. >> Ifill:
THE DIFFERENCE THIS
>> Ifill: THE DIFFERENCE THIS
TIME IS WE HAVE TO ADJUST TO
KARNAGE THAT SEEMS TO HAPPEN IN
KARNAGE THAT SEEMS TO
HAPPEN IN REAL TIME.
REAL TIME. HOW DO
YOU EVEN ANTICIPATE
HOW DO YOU EVEN ANTICIPATE
SOMETHING LIKE THAT?
>> YOU CAN'T.
THAT'S THE PROBLEM.
THAT'S THE PROBLEM. THIS
CREW COULD IN NO WAY HAVE
THIS CREW COULD IN NO WAY HAVE
ANTICIPATED THEY WERE GOING TO
ANTICIPATED THEY WERE
GOING TO BE IN DANGER.
BE IN DANGER. THERE WAS
A LOT OF TALK TODAY
THERE WAS A LOT OF TALK TODAY
ABOUT SHOULD WE HAVE ARMED
ABOUT SHOULD WE HAVE
ARMED GUARDS GO OUT WITH
GUARDS GO OUT WITH
CORRESPONDENTS AND CAMERAS WHEN
CORRESPONDENTS AND CAMERAS
WHEN THEY'RE GOING TO GO LIVE
THEY'RE GOING TO
GO LIVE SOMEWHERE.
SOMEWHERE. THAT'S NOT
GOING TO HAPPEN.
THAT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.
SHOULD WE HAVE FEWER LIVE SHOTS?
SHOULD WE HAVE FEWER LIVE
SHOTS? YES, I THINK WE SHOULD.
YES, I THINK WE SHOULD. I
THINK THAT WOULD BE A REALLY
I THINK THAT WOULD BE A REALLY
GOOD OUTCOME IF WE DIDN'T DO SO
GOOD OUTCOME IF WE DIDN'T DO
SO MANY EMPTY LIVE SHOTS.
MANY EMPTY LIVE SHOTS. BUT
AT THE SAME TIME, THIS IS
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, THIS
IS HOW WE PRESENT THE NEWS.
HOW WE PRESENT THE NEWS. AND
THAT'S WHAT TELEVISION DOES.
AND THAT'S WHAT TELEVISION DOES.
IT GOES TO PLACES WHERE THINGS
IT GOES TO PLACES WHERE
THINGS ARE HAPPENING.
ARE HAPPENING. SHOULD
NEWSROOMS TALK MORE ABOUT
SHOULD NEWSROOMS TALK MORE ABOUT
THE SAFETY OF THEIR PEOPLE AND
MAKE SURE PEOPLE ARE AWARE OF
THE DANGERS THAT THEY FACE EVEN
WHEN YOU DON'T THINK IT COULD
POSSIBLY BE DANGEROUS?
ABSOLUTELY.
ABSOLUTELY. >> Ifill:
IT'S ONE THING TO GO
>> Ifill: IT'S ONE THING TO
GO OUT AND COVER A RIOT AND
OUT AND COVER A RIOT AND
EXPECTING SOMETHING TO HAPPEN,
ANOTHER WHEN YOU'RE TALKING THE
A CHAMBER OF COMMERCE LEADER.
BARRY ROSENFELD, I FEEL LIKE WE
ASK THIS QUESTION EVERY TIME,
BUT WHAT ARE THE SIGNS WE SHOULD
BE ON THE LOOKOUT FOR IN THESE
BE ON THE LOOKOUT FOR IN
THESE KINDS OF CASES?
KINDS OF CASES?
WERE THERE SIGNALS?
WERE THERE SIGNALS? EVERYTHING
WE KNOW SO FAR ABOUT
EVERYTHING WE KNOW SO FAR ABOUT
VESTER FLANAGAN THAT SHOULD HAVE
VESTER FLANAGAN THAT SHOULD
HAVE TIPPED SOMEBODY OFF?
TIPPED SOMEBODY OFF? >>
WELL, YOU KNOW, THIS IS THE
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THIS IS THE
HARDEST QUESTION THERE IS.
BECAUSE IT IS EASY TO SEE
SIGNALS WITH HINDSIGHT.
SIGNALS WITH HINDSIGHT. SO
THERE ARE POSTS APPARENTLY ON
SO THERE ARE POSTS APPARENTLY ON
TWITTER ABOUT HIM BEING A POWDER
TWITTER ABOUT HIM
BEING A POWDER KEG.
KEG. HE'S HAD THIS HISTORY OF
HE'S HAD THIS HISTORY OF
ANIMOSITY AND PARANOIA TOWARD
PEOPLE HE WORKED WITH.
PEOPLE HE WORKED WITH. IS IT
SURPRISING THAT THIS IS A
IS IT SURPRISING THAT THIS IS A
WORKPLACE RELATED SHOOTING GIVEN
WORKPLACE RELATED SHOOTING
GIVEN WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT HIM?
WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT HIM?
NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
NO, I DON'T THINK SO. BUT
OF THE COUNTLESS PEOPLE OUT
BUT OF THE COUNTLESS PEOPLE OUT
THERE WHO HAVE A BEEF WITH THEIR
WORKPLACE, WHO FEEL LIKE THEY'VE
BEEN MISTREATED, WHO FEEL LIKE
THERE'S RACIAL ININJUSTICE, CAN
WE IDENTIFY THE SLIVER THAT
THEY'LL POTENTIALLY BECOME
VIOLENT, NOT WITHOUT A MUCH MORE
DETAILED APPROACH, NOT WITHOUT
REALLY TAKING THINGS SERIOUSLY
WHEN SOMEONE IS BROUGHT TO OUR
ATTENTION, AND I DON'T THINK
ANYONE BROUGHT HIM TO OUR
ANYONE BROUGHT HIM
TO OUR ATTENTION.
ATTENTION. I DON'T
THINK ANY CLINICIAN.
I DON'T THINK ANY CLINICIAN. I
DON'T THINK ANY MENTAL HEALTH
I DON'T THINK ANY MENTAL HEALTH
PERSON SAW HIM WITH THE QUESTION
OF SHOULD WE BE CONCERNED ABOUT
OF SHOULD WE BE
CONCERNED ABOUT HIM.
HIM. >> Ifill: IN GENERAL, ARE
>> Ifill: IN GENERAL, ARE
TARGETED WORKPLACE SHOOTINGS
LIKE THIS DIFFERENT IN IN THE AE
SHOULD ASSESS THEM THAN RANDOM
MOVIE THEATER SHOOTINGS, RANDOM
MOVIE THEATER SHOOTINGS,
RANDOM MASS SHOOTINGS?
MASS SHOOTINGS? >> WELL,
THERE'S A DIFFERENT
>> WELL, THERE'S A DIFFERENT
PROFILE OF WHO THAT PERSON MIGHT
PROFILE OF WHO THAT
PERSON MIGHT BE.
BE. SO THE MOVIE
THEATER SHOOTING,
SO THE MOVIE THEATER SHOOTING,
THAT'S A MUCH MORE SORT OF
PSYCHOTIC-LIKE OFFENSE.
PSYCHOTIC-LIKE OFFENSE. AND
THE WORKPLACE SHOOTING IS
AND THE WORKPLACE SHOOTING IS
USUALLY SOMEBODY WHO HAS BEEN OR
FEELS LIKE THEY'VE BEEN PUSHED
TO THE BREAKING POINT, SOMEBODY
WHO IS... THEIR EGO, THEIR
SELF-ESTEEM HAS BEEN SQUELCHED
BY PROBLEMS IN THE WORKPLACE.
THEY SEE OTHER PEOPLE AS THE
SOURCE OF THEIR PROBLEMS.
SOURCE OF THEIR PROBLEMS. SO
IT'S A DIFFERENT PROFILE.
SO IT'S A DIFFERENT PROFILE.
BUT, YOU KNOW, I DON'T WANT TO
USE THAT FROM FILE TO IMPLY THAT
WE CAN GO OUT THERE AND FIND
THESE PEOPLE, BECAUSE AGAIN,
IT'S THAT NEED UNTIL A
IT'S THAT NEED UNTIL A WANT
TO CIRCLE BACK TO THE TECH
WANT TO CIRCLE BACK TO THE TECH
PART OF THIS, BECAUSE I WONDER
WHOSE RESPONSIBILITY IT SHOULD
BE WHEN THE TECHNOLOGY HAS
OUTPACED OUR ABILITY TO STOP
AWFUL THINGS FROM HAPPENING, IF
AWFUL THINGS FROM HAPPENING,
IF WE WERE EVER CAPABLE OF IT.
WE WERE EVER CAPABLE OF IT. IS
IT THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
IS IT THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
TWITTER AND THE FACEBOOKS OF THE
WORLD TO NOT MAKE THAT POSSIBLE,
OR IS IT THE RESPONSIBILITY OF
OR IS IT THE RESPONSIBILITY
OF THE DISSEMINATORS OR THE
THE DISSEMINATORS OR THE
CONSUMERS OF THE INFORMATION?
CONSUMERS OF THE INFORMATION? >>
I TRY AND EXPLAIN THE PEOPLE,
>> I TRY AND EXPLAIN THE PEOPLE,
TECHNOLOGY IS SUPER SMART AND
TECHNOLOGY IS SUPER SMART
AND ALSO COMPLETELY DUMB.
ALSO COMPLETELY DUMB. IT
DOESN'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
IT DOESN'T KNOW WHAT
YOU'RE PUTTING ON THERE.
PUTTING ON THERE. IT WORKS
ALMOST IN AN AUTOMATED
IT WORKS ALMOST IN AN
AUTOMATED FASHION.
FASHION. THE IDEA OF
TWITTER AND FACEBOOK
THE IDEA OF TWITTER AND FACEBOOK
IS THAT YOU PUT SOMETHING IN,
YOU PRESS A BUTTAHON AND IT GOES
TO THE PEOPLE YOU HAVE ALREADY
SET IT UP TO SHARE WITH.
FACEBOOK HAS OVER A BILLION
FACEBOOK HAS OVER
A BILLION USERS.
USERS. TWITTER HAS WELL OVER 300
TWITTER HAS WELL OVER
300 MILLION USERS.
MILLION USERS. THIS WAS
A REMARKABLY SAVVY
THIS WAS A REMARKABLY SAVVY
PSYCHOPATH TO BE QUITE HONEST,
BECAUSE AS HI WAS DRIVING, HE
WAS SHARING THIS THING TO HIS
WAS SHARING THIS THING
TO HIS SOCIAL NETWORK.
SOCIAL NETWORK. WHAT
HAPPENS ON THE OTHER SIDE
WHAT HAPPENS ON THE OTHER SIDE
IS PEOPLE WHO WERE EITHER
ALREADY FOLLOWING HIM OR AS MANY
IN THE MEDIA AT THAT MOMENT WERE
DOING, INCLUDING ME, WHO WERE
LOOKING FOR HIM TO FIND TRACES
OF WHO THIS PERSON IS AND WHAT
THEY'RE ALL ABOUT, BASICALLY
STUMBLED ON HIS LIVE BLOG OF
STUMBLED ON HIS LIVE BLOG
OF HIS... OF THESE MURDERS.
HIS... OF THESE MURDERS. AND
HE PUT THEM UP THERE SO
AND HE PUT THEM UP THERE SO
QUICKLY WHILE HE WAS ON THE
ROAD, USING HIS SMARTPHONE, AND
AS SOON AS FACEBOOK AND TWITTER
WERE AWARE OF WHAT WAS
HAPPENING, THEY PULLED THEM
HAPPENING, THEY
PULLED THEM DOWN.
DOWN. IT WAS APPROXIMATELY SEVEN
IT WAS APPROXIMATELY SEVEN
MINUTES, BUT AS YOUR OTHER
GUESTS SAID, CAT'S OUT OF THE
GUESTS SAID, CAT'S
OUT OF THE BAG.
BAG. IT WAS ALREADY
OUT THERE AND IT
IT WAS ALREADY OUT THERE AND IT
WAS BEING SHARED ALL AROUND,
PEOPLE HAD PULLED THE VIDEO
PEOPLE HAD PULLED
THE VIDEO DOWN.
DOWN. IT IS NOT...
I DON'T THINK IT'S
IT IS NOT... I DON'T THINK IT'S
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THEM.
BUT THERE IS ONE CAVEAT HERE,
ONE VERY IMPORTANT CAVEAT,
SOMETHING NEW THAT WAS ADDED
FAIRLY RECENTLY TO TWITTER AND
ALSO EXISTS ON FACEBOOK AND IT'S
AUTO PLAY, MEANING THAT THE
VIDEOS PLAY THE MOMENT THEY HAVE
THE FOCAL POINT ON YOUR SCREEN.
AND I THINK THAT'S A PLACE WHERE
YOU SUDDENLY CAN'T GET AWAY FROM
YOU SUDDENLY CAN'T
GET AWAY FROM IT.
IT. THE VIDEO IS
PLAYING, AND I SAW
THE VIDEO IS PLAYING, AND I SAW
THIS VIDEO, AND YOU CANNOT LOOK
AWAY, AND YOU DON'T EVEN REALIZE
EXACTLY WHAT YOU'RE SEEING UNTIL
EXACTLY WHAT YOU'RE
SEEING UNTIL IT HAPPENS.
IT HAPPENS. >> Ifill:
THAT HAPPENED TO ME
>> Ifill: THAT HAPPENED
TO ME AS WELL.
AS WELL. I FIGURED
OUT HOW TO STOP THAT
I FIGURED OUT HOW TO STOP
THAT FROM HAPPENING.
FROM HAPPENING. LET ME
ASK DEBORAH POTTER ABOUT
LET ME ASK DEBORAH POTTER ABOUT
THAT, WHICH IS WHAT IS OUR
RESPONSIBILITY AS NEWS GATHERERS
NOT ONLY TO PROTECT OURSELVES
BUT ALSO TO PROTECT THE PEOPLE
WHO READ AND VIEW WHAT WE WATCH.
>> I THINK THE POINT LANCE IS
MAKING WITH NEW TECHNOLOGY, THE
WHOLE QUESTION OF OUGHT TO PLAY.
THAT CAN BE DISABLED AT THE
PRODUCER'S END AND SHOULD BE
DISABLED AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
AND ALSO I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
FOR NEWSROOMS TO TALK TO THEIR
AUDIENCE ABOUT WHAT IT IS
THEY'RE DOING AND WHY.
THEY'RE DOING AND WHY. SO IF
SMBS, AS THEY DID, DECIDED
SO IF SMBS, AS THEY DID, DECIDED
TO SHOW THE VIDEO THAT WAS SHOT
BY THE PERPETRATOR FROM HIS
PERSPECTIVE AND STOP IT AT THE
POINT WHERE YOU SEE HIM POINTING
THE GUN, THEY NEED TO EXPLAIN
THE GUN, THEY NEED TO
EXPLAIN WHY THEY DID THAT.
WHY THEY DID THAT. WHY IS
IT SO IMPORTANT FOR US TO
WHY IS IT SO IMPORTANT FOR US
TO SHOW THAT TO THE PUBLIC?
SHOW THAT TO THE PUBLIC? AND
IF WE'RE NOT SHOWING IT, WHY
AND IF WE'RE NOT SHOWING IT,
WHY ARE WE NOT SHOWING IT?
ARE WE NOT SHOWING IT? >>
Ifill: BARRY ROSENFELD, I
>> Ifill: BARRY ROSENFELD, I
STARTED THIS BY SAYING IT WAS
SADLY FAMILIAR BUT SHOCKINGLY
SADLY FAMILIAR BUT
SHOCKINGLY DIFFERENT.
DIFFERENT. DO YOU
AGREE WITH THAT?
DO YOU AGREE WITH THAT? WAS
THIS VERY DIFFERENT FROM
WAS THIS VERY DIFFERENT FROM
EVERYTHING WE'VE SEEN BEFORE?
>> WELL, IT'S... I GUESS I
>> WELL, IT'S... I GUESS
I WOULDN'T SAY IT'S VERY
WOULDN'T SAY IT'S
VERY DIFFERENT.
DIFFERENT. IT'S NOT
WHAT THE LAST COUPLE OF
IT'S NOT WHAT THE LAST COUPLE OF
MASS SHOOTINGS HAVE BEEN, BUT
IT'S A WORKPLACE VIOLENCE
IT'S A WORKPLACE
VIOLENCE INCIDENT.
INCIDENT. WHAT MAKES
IT DIFFERENT IS THE
WHAT MAKES IT DIFFERENT IS
THE TWITTER FEED, THE LIVE
TWITTER FEED, THE LIVE
BROADCASTING OF IT.
BROADCASTING OF IT. I THINK
THAT IS JUST A SIGN OF
I THINK THAT IS JUST A SIGN OF
THE TIMES, THAT PEOPLE ARE SAVVY
WITH TECHNOLOGY AND HAD THIS
TECHNOLOGY BEEN AROUND 15 YEARS
AGO, THE COLUMBINE WOULD HAVE
BEEN ON YOUTUBE JUST AS QUICKLY.
IF I COULD JUST GO BACK THE A
COMMENT THAT YOUR LAST GUEST
MADE, YOU KNOW, THE OTHER PLACE
WHERE I GUESS I WOULD HOPE
PEOPLE WOULD MAYBE FEEL SOME
RESPONSIBILITY IS WHEN A POST IS
PUT ON FACEBOOK OR ON TWITTER
THAT I'M A POWDER KEG, MAYBE
THAT'S A PLACE WHERE FRIENDS OR
FAMILY COULD JUMP IN OR COULD
SAY, WHAT'S THIS ABOUT?
HAVE YOU TALKED TO SOMEBODY
HAVE YOU TALKED TO
SOMEBODY ABOUT THIS?
ABOUT THIS? I THINKE
OTHER AVENUES
I THINKE OTHER AVENUES OTHER
THAN THE MEDIA NECESSARILY
OTHER THAN THE MEDIA NECESSARILY
OR THE GOVERNMENT SURVEYING OUR
OR THE GOVERNMENT
SURVEYING OUR POST.
POST. BUT THERE ARE
SOME OPPORTUNITIES
BUT THERE ARE SOME OPPORTUNITIES
HERE FOR PEOPLE TO NOTICE THAT
HERE FOR PEOPLE TO NOTICE
THAT HE IS AT HIS WITH'S END
HE IS AT HIS WITH'S
END BASICALLY.
BASICALLY. >> Ifill:
WE'VE PROBABLY JUST
>> Ifill: WE'VE PROBABLY JUST
SCRATCHED THE SURFACE ON, THIS
BUT I THANK YOU ALL FOR HELPING
BUT I THANK YOU ALL
FOR HELPING US.
US. DEBORAH POTTER
AND LANCE ULANOFF
DEBORAH POTTER AND LANCE ULANOFF
AND BARRY ROSENFELD, THANK YOU
AND BARRY ROSENFELD,
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
ALL VERY MUCH. >>
THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: THE GOOD ECONOMIC
NEWS OUT TODAY ADDS YET ANOTHER
LAYER OF COMPLEXITY TO A CRUCIAL
DECISION THAT COULD AFFECT
MILLIONS OF AMERICAN HOUSEHOLDS.
WILL THE FED FINALLY RAISE
INTEREST RATES NEXT MONTH?
IT'S A MUCH DEBATED QUESTION,
ONE THAT'S TAKEN ON NEW URGENCY
GIVEN THE MARKET TURMOIL OF
LATE, WORRIES OVER CHINA AND
LATE, WORRIES OVER
CHINA AND MORE.
MORE. IT'S ALSO THE
SUBJECT OF MUCH
IT'S ALSO THE SUBJECT OF MUCH
ATTENTION AT THE FED'S ANNUAL
RETREAT NOW UNDERWAY IN JACKSON
RETREAT NOW UNDERWAY IN
JACKSON HOLE, WYOMING.
HOLE, WYOMING. GREG IP
FOLLOWS THIS ALL CLOSELY
GREG IP FOLLOWS THIS ALL
CLOSELY AS THE CHIEF ECONOMICS
AS THE CHIEF ECONOMICS
COMMENTATOR FOR THE "WALL STREET
COMMENTATOR FOR THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL."
JOURNAL." GREAT TO
HAVE YOU BACK, GREG.
GREAT TO HAVE YOU BACK,
GREG. >> GREAT TO BE HERE.
>> GREAT TO BE HERE. >>
Woodruff: THERE ARE ALL
>> Woodruff: THERE ARE ALL THESE
ARGUMENTS EVERY DAY, RAISE
THESE ARGUMENTS EVERY DAY, RAISE
RATES, DON'T RAISE RATES.
YESTERDAY WILLIAM DUDLEY, AN
INFLUENTIAL MAN, SAID NEW THERE
IS A LESS-COMPELLING ARGUMENT.
WHAT IS HE TALKING ABOUT?
WHAT IS HE TALKING ABOUT? >>
WELL, IT REALLY IS A CRUCIAL
>> WELL, IT REALLY IS A CRUCIAL
DECISION MOMENT FOR THE FED.
THEY'VE HAD INTEREST RATES AT
ZERO FOR BASICALLY SEVEN YEARS
NOW IN AN EFFORT TO TRY TO GET A
BADLY BEATEN UP ECONOMY GROWING
BADLY BEATEN UP ECONOMY
GROWING NORMALLY AGAIN.
NORMALLY AGAIN. WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THINGS LIKE THE
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THINGS LIKE
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, THEY
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE,
THEY SUCCEEDED.
SUCCEEDED. IT'S DOWN TO 5.3%.
IT'S DOWN TO 5.3%.
THAT LOOKS NORMAL.
THAT LOOKS NORMAL. YOU
HAVE THESE ABNORMALLY LOW
YOU HAVE THESE ABNORMALLY
LOW INTEREST RATES.
INTEREST RATES. SO ALMOST
ALL THE OFFICIALS ON
SO ALMOST ALL THE OFFICIALS ON
THE FED HAVE FELT ALL YEAR THAT
THE TIME WOULD BE RIGHT BY THE
FALL TO START RAISING INTEREST
FALL TO START RAISING
INTEREST RATES UP FROM ZERO.
RATES UP FROM ZERO. WHAT
CHANGED IN THE LAST FEW
WHAT CHANGED IN THE
LAST FEW WEEKS?
WEEKS? WELL, ONE OF
THE THINGS THAT'S
WELL, ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S
NOT NORMAL IS THE INFLATION
NOT NORMAL IS THE
INFLATION RATE.
RATE. IT'S STILL TOO
LOW FOR THE FED'S
IT'S STILL TOO LOW
FOR THE FED'S TASTE.
TASTE. WHAT WE'VE
SEEN, WE KNOW A
WHAT WE'VE SEEN, WE
KNOW A COUPLE THINGS.
COUPLE THINGS. THE PRICE
OF OIL HAS FALLEN.
THE PRICE OF OIL HAS FALLEN.
THE DOLLAR HAS GOTTEN STRONGER
AND SOME THINGS WILL GET CHEAPER
AND INFLATION WILL GO EVEN
AND INFLATION WILL
GO EVEN LOWER.
LOWER. SO IT LOOKS
LIKE A TENDER TIME
SO IT LOOKS LIKE A TENDER TIME
IN THE FINANCIAL MARKETS.
IN THE FINANCIAL MARKETS. THOSE
TWO FACTORS SUGGEST IT'S
THOSE TWO FACTORS SUGGEST
IT'S TOO SOON TO START MOVING
TOO SOON TO START MOVING
INTEREST RATES HIGHER.
INTEREST RATES HIGHER. >>
Woodruff: YOU DO HAVE THE
>> Woodruff: YOU DO HAVE THE
ARGUMENT, I SAW THIS JUST TODAY,
THE KANSAS CITY FED PRESIDENT
ESTHER GEORGE SAID BECAUSE THE
U.S. ECONOMY IS FUNDAMENTALLY
STRONG THE FED SHOULDN'T
HESITATE TO GO AHEAD AND RAISE
HESITATE TO GO AHEAD
AND RAISE RATES.
RATES. YOU HAD THOSE
NEW G.D.P. NUMBERS
YOU HAD THOSE NEW G.D.P. NUMBERS
WE CITED EARLIER IN THE PRAC,
STRONG GROWTH EARLIER THIS YEAR.
STRONG GROWTH EARLIER
THIS YEAR. >> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. IF YOU'RE
JUST LOOKING AT THE
IF YOU'RE JUST LOOKING AT THE
SITUATION OF THE U.S. ECONOMY
ALONE, THIS WOULD BE A
ALONE, THIS WOULD
BE A NO-BRAINER.
NO-BRAINER. WE HAD VERY
GOOD G.D.P. NUMBERS
WE HAD VERY GOOD G.D.P. NUMBERS
FOR THE SECOND QUARTER, 3.7%
FOR THE SECOND QUARTER,
3.7% ANNUALIZED GROWTH.
ANNUALIZED GROWTH. WE'VE
SEEN DATA FOR THE MONTH OF
WE'VE SEEN DATA FOR THE MONTH
OF JULY AND WE KNOW FACTORY
JULY AND WE KNOW FACTORY
ACTIVITY WAS QUITE GOOD.
MOMENT WAS VERY STRONG.
MOMENT WAS VERY STRONG. YOU'VE
EVEN SEEN HOUSING SALES.
YOU'VE EVEN SEEN HOUSING SALES.
ALL THESE TELLS US THAT THE
ECONOMY IS DOING JUST FINE.
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE MARKET IS
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE
MARKET IS MARKET EVENT.
MARKET EVENT. SO IF THEY
CAN SOMEHOW PUT THAT
SO IF THEY CAN SOMEHOW PUT
THAT ASIDE, THEN REALLY THEY
ASIDE, THEN REALLY THEY
SHOULDN'T FEEL THAT NERVOUS
ABOUT STARTI THAT PROCESS.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE
THE FED DIVIDING ON THIS.
OBVIOUSLY THEY'RE NOT TALKING
OPENLY ABOUT THIS, GREG, BUT
WHAT KIND OF CONVERSATION ARE
THEY GOING TO BE HAVING?
THEY GOING TO BE HAVING? >>
YOU CAN DIVIDE FED OFFICIALS,
>> YOU CAN DIVIDE FED OFFICIALS,
17 OR 18 NOW, INTO THREE GROUPS.
THE HAWKS ALWAYS THINK THEY
THE HAWKS ALWAYS THINK
THEY SHOULD RAE RAISTES.
SHOULD RAE RAISTES. GEORGE
COULD BE CONSIDERED ONE
GEORGE COULD BE
CONSIDERED ONE OF THOSE.
OF THOSE. YOU HAVE DOVES
WHO THINK THE FED
YOU HAVE DOVES WHO THINK THE FED
SHOULD ALWAYS BE SLOW TO RAISE
SHOULD ALWAYS BE SLOW TO
RAISE INTEREST RATES.
INTEREST RATES. AND
THERE IS A GROUP IN THE
AND THERE IS A GROUP IN THE
MIDDLE THAT IS ALWAYS LOOKING
CAREFULLY AT EVERY LAST DATA
POINT AND THEY'RE IN THE SURE.xD
THAT GROUP OF PEOPLE LED BY
JANET YELLEN IS UNDECIDED.
JANET YELLEN IS UNDECIDED. IF
YOU LOOK AT WHERE THE MARKETS
IF YOU LOOK AT WHERE THE MARKETS
ARE, THEY BELIEVE THAT THE ODDS
OF A RATE INCREASE AT THEIR
MEETING NEXT MONTH HAVE GONE
FROM WELL OVER 50% TO NOW AROUND
FROM WELL OVER 50%
TO NOW AROUND 25%.
25%. I THINK THEY'RE
BETTING THAT
I THINK THEY'RE BETTING THAT
WHEN JANET YELLEN LOOKS AT THE
TROUBLES IN THE MARKET OUT
THERE, THE LIKELIHOOD THAT
INFLATION WILL GO LOWER RATHER
THAN HIGHER, SHE'S GOING TO SAY,
MAYBE NOT NOW, MAYBE WE'LL THINK
ABOUT THIS IN DECEMBER INSTEAD.
>> Woodruff: SHE'S NOT
>> Woodruff: SHE'S NOT ATTENDING
THIS FED CONFERENCE AT
ATTENDING THIS FED
CONFERENCE AT JACKSON HOLE.
JACKSON HOLE. HER VICE
CHAIRMAN, STANLEY
HER VICE CHAIRMAN, STANLEY
FISHER, IS THERE.
FISHER, IS THERE. THERE
WAS A STORY TODAY THAT HE
THERE WAS A STORY TODAY THAT HE
WAS WALKING PAST SOME OF THESE
WAS WALKING PAST SOME
OF THESE PROTESTERS.
PROTESTERS. THERE'S A
LIBERAL GROUP CALLED
THERE'S A LIBERAL GROUP CALLED
THE CENTER FOR POPULAR DEMOCRACY
THAT'S HOLDING PROTESTS ALL
THAT'S HOLDING PROTESTS
ALL WEEKEND OUT THERE.
WEEKEND OUT THERE. IS
THAT SOMETHING THAT CAN
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT CAN
INFLUENCE THESE FED GOVERNORS AS
INFLUENCE THESE FED GOVERNORS
AS ... OR DO THEY JUST LOOK THE
... OR DO THEY JUST
LOOK THE OTHER WAY?
OTHER WAY? >> THEY'VE
HEARD ARGUMENTS BOTH
>> THEY'VE HEARD ARGUMENTS BOTH
FROM GROUPS ON THE LIBERAL SIDE
WHO HAVE FELT STRONGLY THE FED
NEEDS TO DO MORE TO GET THE
ECONOMY GROWING FASTER,
UNEMPLMENTOY LOWER.
UNEMPLMENTOY LOWER. THIS
WOULD BE GOOD FOR PEOPLE'S
THIS WOULD BE GOOD
FOR PEOPLE'S WAGES.
WAGES. WE'VE EVEN
HEARD LARRY SUMMERS,
WE'VE EVEN HEARD LARRY
SUMMERS, WHO ISN'T EXACTLY A
WHO ISN'T EXACTLY A
BLEEDING-HEART LIBERAL MAKING
THAT CASE IN THE OP-ED PAGES
THAT THIS IS THE WRONG TIME THE
THAT THIS IS THE WRONG TIME
THE RAISE INTEREST RATES.
RAISE INTEREST RATES. BUT
PEOPLE ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
BUT PEOPLE ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THE ARGUMENT, IN FACT, SOME OF
THOSE PEOPLE WILL BE OUT THERE
AT JACKSON HOLE OFFSETTING THE
CRIES THE STAY AT ZERO NGNO, NOO
MOVE RATES UP, YOU'RE DOING MORE
DAMAGE THAN YOU'RE HELPING.
SO THEY HAVE PRESSURE ON BETH
SO THEY HAVE PRESSURE
ON BETH SIDES.
SIDES. >> Woodruff:
WE HAVE A FEW
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE A FEW WEEKS
TO GO BEFORE THEY MEET THE
WEEKS TO GO BEFORE THEY MEET THE
MAKE THIS DECISION, BUT IT'S
NEVER TOO SOON TO START TALKING
NEVER TOO SOON TO START
TALKING ABOUT IT.
ABOUT IT. >> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT. WHAT
ELSE DO WE HAVE TO TALK
WHAT ELSE DO WE
HAVE TO TALK ABOUT?
ABOUT? >> Woodruff:
GREG IP WITH THE
>> Woodruff: GREG IP WITH THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL," WE THANK
"WALL STREET JOURNAL,"
WE THANK YOU.
YOU. >> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: THE
ACTOR WENDELL PIERCE MOVES
THE ACTOR WENDELL PIERCE MOVES
TO HELP REBUILD HIS NATIVE NEW
TO HELP REBUILD HIS
NATIVE NEW ORLEANS.
ORLEANS. AND, INNOVATION
AND INVENTIONS
AND, INNOVATION AND INVENTIONS
FROM A RISING CLASS OF
ENTREPRENEURS IN RWANDA.
>> Woodruff: BUT FIRST, WE
CONTINUE OUR WEEKLONG SERIES ON
HOW THE GULF COAST IS FARING
HOW THE GULF COAST IS
FARING AFTER KATRINA.
AFTER KATRINA. WE START
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
WE START WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
VISIT TO THE AREA TODAY.
VISIT TO THE AREA TODAY. 10
YEARS AFTER THE COSTLIEST
10 YEARS AFTER THE COSTLIEST
NATURAL DISASTER IN AMERICAN
HISTORY, PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY
DECLARED NEW ORLEANS IS MOVING
DECLARED NEW ORLEANS
IS MOVING FORWARD.
FORWARD. HE SPOKE
AT A NEWLY OPENED
HE SPOKE AT A NEWLY OPENED
COMMUNITY CENTER IN THE LOWER
9TH WARD, ONE OF THE CITY'S
HARDEST-HIT NEIGHBORHOODS.
HARDEST-HIT NEIGHBORHOODS. >>
YOU ARE AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT IS
>> YOU ARE AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT IS
POSSIBLE WHEN, IN THE FACE OF
TRAGEDY AND IN THE FACE OF
HARDSHIP, GOOD PEOPLE COME
TOGETHER TO LEND A HAND AND
BRICK BY BRICK, BLOCK BY BLOCK,
NEIGHBORHOOD BY NEIGHBORHOOD,
YOU BUILD A BETTER FUTURE.
AND THAT MORE THAN ANY OTHER
REASON IS WHY I HAVE COME BACK
REASON IS WHY I HAVE
COME BACK HERE TODAY.
HERE TODAY. >> Woodruff:
MR. OBAMA WAS IN
>> Woodruff: MR. OBAMA WAS IN
HIS FIRST YEAR AS A U.S. SENATOR
WHEN KATRINA STRUCK LOUISIANA IN
WHEN KATRINA STRUCK
LOUISIANA IN AUGUST 2005.
AUGUST 2005. IT DEVASTATED
THE GULF COAST,
IT DEVASTATED THE GULF COAST,
FROM TEXAS TO FLORIDA, WHILE
BREACHING THE LEVEE SYSTEM BUILT
TO PROTECT NEW ORLEANS FROM
TO PROTECT NEW ORLEANS
FROM FLOODING.
FLOODING. MORE THAN
1,800 PEOPLE DIED AND
MORE THAN 1,800 PEOPLE DIED
AND A MILLION WERE DISPLACED.
A MILLION WERE DISPLACED.
DAMAGES REACHED $150 BILLION.
ASIDE FROM PRAISING THE CITY'S
RESILIENCE, THE PRESIDENT ALSO
ACKNOWLEDGED THE FAILURE OF
GOVERNMENT TO "LOOK OUT" FOR
RESIDENTS OF NEW ORLEANS.
RESIDENTS OF NEW ORLEANS. >>
WHAT THAT STORM REVEALED WAS
>> WHAT THAT STORM REVEALED WAS
ANOTHER TRAGEDY, ONE THAT HAD
BEEN BREWING FOR DECADES.
NEW ORLEANS HAD LONG BEEN
PLAGUED BY STRUCTURAL INEQUALITY
THAT LEFT TOO MANY PEOPLE,
ESPECIALLY POOR PEOPLE OF COLOR,
WITHOUT GOOD JOBS OR AFFORDABLE
HEALTH CARE OR DECENT HOUSING.
>> Woodruff: AS A CANDIDATE IN
>> Woodruff: AS A CANDIDATE
IN 2008, MR. OBAMA SHARPLY
2008, MR. OBAMA SHARPLY
CRITICIZED PRESIDENT GEORGE W.
BUSH FOR HIS ADMINISTRATION'S
HANDLING OF THE STORM'S
HANDLING OF THE
STORM'S AFTERMATH.
AFTERMATH. AND TODAY,
A CHEERING CROWD
AND TODAY, A CHEERING CROWD
GREETED THE PRESIDENT AS HE
TOURED TREME, ONE OF THE
COUNTRY'S OLDEST BLACK
COUNTRY'S OLDEST
BLACK NEIGHBORHOODS.
NEIGHBORHOODS. IT WAS
BADLY FLOODED IN THE
IT WAS BADLY FLOODED IN THE
DELUGE THAT SWAMPED NEW ORLEANS.
AFTER MEETING WITH RESIDENTS,
MR. OBAMA EMPHASIZED THAT MUCH
MR. OBAMA EMPHASIZED
THAT MUCH WORK REMAINS.
WORK REMAINS. >> JUST
BECAUSE THE HOUSES ARE
>> JUST BECAUSE THE HOUSES ARE
NICE DOESN'T MEAN OUR JOB'S
NICE DOESN'T MEAN
OUR JOB'S DONE.
DONE. THIS IS A
COMMUNITY OBVIOUSLY
THIS IS A COMMUNITY OBVIOUSLY
THAT STILL HAS A LOT OF POVERTY.
THIS IS AN AREA WHERE YOUNG
PEOPLE STILL TOO OFTEN ARE
TAKING THE WRONG PATH BEFORE
THEY GRADUATE HIGH SCHOOL.
THIS IS A COMMUNITY THAT STILL
NEEDS RESOURCES, STILL NEEDS
NEEDS RESOURCES,
STILL NEEDS HELP.
HELP. >> Woodruff:
THE CITY AS A WHOLE
>> Woodruff: THE CITY AS A WHOLE
HAS SEEN POSITIVES, LIKE A NEAR
HAS SEEN POSITIVES, LIKE A
NEAR RETURN TO ITS PRE-STORM
RETURN TO ITS
PRE-STORM POPULATION.
POPULATION. BUT NEW
ORLEANS IS STILL PLAGUED
BUT NEW ORLEANS IS STILL PLAGUED
BY SEVERE INCOME INEQUALITY AND
BY SEVERE INCOME INEQUALITY
AND A RISING CRIME RATE.
A RISING CRIME RATE. >>
Ifill: NOW WE LOOK AT ONE
>> Ifill: NOW WE LOOK AT ONE
HISTORIC NEIGHBORHOOD, BEFORE
AND AFTER KATRINA.IT'S THE HOMEL
PIERCE, WHO TELLS HIS STORY IN
THE FORTHCOMING MEMOIR, "THE
THE FORTHCOMING MEMOIR,
"THE WIND IN THE REEDS."
WIND IN THE REEDS." JEFFREY
BROWN RECENTLY SPENT A
JEFFREY BROWN RECENTLY SPENT
A DAY WITH PIERCE IN THE
DAY WITH PIERCE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD HE GREW UP IN,
POHATRNCAIN PARK, IN THE
GENTILLY DISTRICT OF NEW
GENTILLY DISTRICT
OF NEW ORLEANS.
ORLEANS. >> I PLAYED
ON THIS GOLF COURSE
>> I PLAYED ON THIS
GOLF COURSE EVERY DAY.
EVERY DAY. >>
Brown: YOU PLAYED--
>> Brown: YOU PLAYED--
>> FOOTBALL, TAG.
>> FOOTBALL,
TAG. (LAUGHS)
(LAUGHS) EVERYTHING
BUT GOLF AND MY GAME
EVERYTHING BUT GOLF AND
MY GAME SHOWS THAT.
SHOWS THAT. >> Brown: A
PLACE FOR A CHILD TO
>> Brown: A PLACE FOR
A CHILD TO PLAY.
PLAY. FOR NEIGHBORS
TO ENJOY GREEN
FOR NEIGHBORS TO ENJOY GREEN
SPACE AND A SENSE OF COMMUNITY.
CAN A GOLF COURSE EMBODY SO
CAN A GOLF COURSE
EMBODY SO MUCH?
MUCH? YES, SAYS ACTOR
WENDELL PIERCE.
YES, SAYS ACTOR WENDELL
PIERCE. THAT AND MUCH MORE.
THAT AND MUCH MORE.
>> THIS IS OUR ANCHOR. THIS
WAS THE ONLY PLACE THAT
THIS WAS THE ONLY PLACE THAT
BLACK GOLFERS COULD PLAY.
BLACK GOLFERS COULD PLAY. THIS
WAS THE EPITOME OF WHAT THE
THIS WAS THE EPITOME OF WHAT THE
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT WAS ALL
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT
WAS ALL ABOUT.
ABOUT. THIS IS HALLOWED GROUND.
THIS IS HALLOWED GROUND. >>
Brown: THE GOLF COURSE IS IN
>> Brown: THE GOLF COURSE IS IN
THE HEART OF PONCHARTRAIN PARK.
IN AN ENCLAVE BUILT IN THE
IN AN ENCLAVE BUILT IN THE 1950S
AS A "SEPARATE BUT EQUAL",
1950S AS A "SEPARATE BUT EQUAL",
SUBURBAN-STYLE DEVELOPMENT FOR
SUBURBAN-STYLE DEVELOPMENT
FOR MIDDLE CLASS BLACKS.
MIDDLE CLASS BLACKS.
PIERCE, WHO TRAINED AT
JUILLIARD, IS BEST KNOWN AS
DETECTIVE BUNK MORELAND FROM THE
DETECTIVE BUNK MORELAND FROM
THE HBO SERIES "THE WIRE".
HBO SERIES "THE WIRE". AND
THEN AS A DOWN-AND-OUT
AND THEN AS A DOWN-AND-OUT
MUSICIAN IN POST-KATRINA NEW
ORLEANS IN THE TV SERIES
ORLEANS IN THE TV
SERIES "TREME".
"TREME". >> THESE ARE
OUR FIRST 2 MODEL
>> THESE ARE OUR
FIRST 2 MODEL HOMES.
HOMES. >> Brown: BUT
PERHAPS THE ROLE
>> Brown: BUT PERHAPS THE ROLE
HE RELISHES THE MOST THESE DAYS
IS THAT OF A COMMUNITY BUILDER,
OR RE-BUILDER, TRYING TO BRING
BACK THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE HE
BACK THE NEIGHBORHOOD
WHERE HE GOT HIS START.
GOT HIS START. PIERCE'S
PARENTS -- AMOS, A
PIERCE'S PARENTS -- AMOS, A
JANITOR AND ALTHEA, A SCHOOL
TEACHER -- MOVED HERE IN 1955 TO
PROVIDE A BETTER LIFE FOR THEIR
PROVIDE A BETTER LIFE
FOR THEIR THREE SONS.
THREE SONS. >> LISTEN,
THAT IS THE HEART AND
>> LISTEN, THAT IS THE HEART AND
SOUL OF THE AMERICAN DREAM.
HOME OWNERSHIP, THE IDEA OF
BEING ABLE TO BUY A HOUSE AND
START TO BUILD YOUR FAMILY.
>> Brown: IT WAS A SECURE AND
HAPPY HOME FOR THE PIERCES.
UNTIL, WITH KATRINA, IT WASN'T.
AS FLOODWATERS RUSHED INTO
PONCHARTRAIN PARK, THE FAMILY
PONCHARTRAIN PARK, THE
FAMILY ESCAPED IN TIME.
ESCAPED IN TIME. AND 3
MONTHS LATER, PIERCE
AND 3 MONTHS LATER, PIERCE
RETURNED WITH HIS ELDERLY
PARENTS AND TOOK THIS HOME
PARENTS AND TOOK
THIS HOME VIDEO.
VIDEO. >> MY BEDROOM.
>> MY BEDROOM. WHAT
USED TO BE MY GORGEOUS
WHAT USED TO BE MY
GORGEOUS BEDROOM.
BEDROOM. >> Brown: DEBRIS.
>> Brown: DEBRIS. MUD.
MUD. A LIFE OVERTURNED.
A LIFE OVERTURNED. 90-YEAR
OLD AMOS PIERCE TOLD US
90-YEAR OLD AMOS PIERCE
TOLD US OF THAT MOMENT.
OF THAT MOMENT. >>
I STARTED CRYING.
>> I STARTED CRYING. MY
WIFE STARTED CRYING.
MY WIFE STARTED CRYING. THE
WATER LINE WAS A HALF FOOT
THE WATER LINE WAS A HALF
FOOT FROM THE CEILING.
FROM THE CEILING. >> I
SAW NOT THIS ELDERLY
>> I SAW NOT THIS
ELDERLY COUPLE.
COUPLE. I SAW A YOUNG
COUPLE WITH ALL
I SAW A YOUNG COUPLE WITH ALL
THEIR HOPES AND DREAMS IN 1955,
BUYING A HOUSE AND SEEING ALL
BUYING A HOUSE AND SEEING
ALL THEIR DREAMS DESTROYED.
THEIR DREAMS DESTROYED. >>
Brown: WENDELL PIERCE MADE A
>> Brown: WENDELL PIERCE MADE A
VOW TO REBUILD SO HIS PARENTS
VOW TO REBUILD SO HIS
PARENTS COULD RETURN.
COULD RETURN. >> HE
FOUGHT SO LONG AND HARD,
>> HE FOUGHT SO LONG AND HARD,
MY MOTHER TOO, TO MAKE SURE WE
HAD A DECENT PLACE TO GROW UP
HAD A DECENT PLACE TO GROW
UP AND A DECENT LIFE.
AND A DECENT LIFE. I WANTED
TO MAKE SURE THEY GOT
I WANTED TO MAKE SURE THEY GOT
BACK HERE NO MATTER WHAT.
>> Brown: AND THEY DID.
>> Brown: AND THEY DID. 16
MONTHS AFTER THE STORM.
16 MONTHS AFTER THE STORM.
ALTHEA PIERCE LIVED THERE UNTIL
ALTHEA PIERCE LIVED THERE
UNTIL HER DEATH IN 2012.
HER DEATH IN 2012. IN THE
AFTERMATH OF KATRINA,
IN THE AFTERMATH OF KATRINA,
PIERCE ALSO FELT CALLED TO
RESPOND THROUGH HIS ART.
RESPOND THROUGH HIS ART. >>
IT WAS ON THIS ROAD THAT I
>> IT WAS ON THIS ROAD THAT I
SAW THE LIGHTS OF THE CARS.
SAW THE LIGHTS OF THE CARS. I
THOUGHT, "IS IT POSSIBLE THAT
I THOUGHT, "IS IT POSSIBLE THAT
THEY'RE COMING TO SEE THE PLAY?"
>> Brown: THE PLAY WAS "WAITING
FOR GODOT", THE ABSURDIST
CLASSIC WRITTEN BY AN IRISHMAN,
SAMUEL BECKETT, IN 1949.
>> THIS WAS THE CORNER.
>> THIS WAS THE CORNER. THIS
WAS THE CORNER WHERE WE DID
THIS WAS THE CORNER
WHERE WE DID THE PLAY.
THE PLAY. >> Brown:
BUT THAT SOMEHOW TOOK
>> Brown: BUT THAT SOMEHOW TOOK
ON A POWERFUL NEW RESONANCE WHEN
ON A POWERFUL NEW RESONANCE
WHEN STAGED IN 2007 IN THE
STAGED IN 2007 IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD HARDEST HIT BY
KATRINA, THE LOWER NINTH WARD.
>> I KNEW IT WOULD BE SPECIAL
BECAUSE THE PLAY SPOKE TO WHAT
BECAUSE THE PLAY SPOKE TO
WHAT WE WERE GOING THROUGH SO
WE WERE GOING THROUGH
SO PERFECTLY.
PERFECTLY. >> Brown:
IS THAT WHY YOU WANTED
>> Brown: IS THAT WHY YOU
WANTED TO BE A PART OF IT?
TO BE A PART OF IT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. I KNEW
THAT IT WAS GOING TO BE
I KNEW THAT IT WAS GOING TO BE
THE BEST DISPLAY OF POWER AND
THE ROLE THAT ART PLAYS.
>> RECOGNIZE THIS PLACE?
>> RECOGNIZE THIS
PLACE? RECOGNIZE?
RECOGNIZE? WHAT IS
THERE TO RECOGNIZE?
WHAT IS THERE TO RECOGNIZE?
TWO CHARACTERS WAITING IN
DESOLATION IN A VOID ON A ROAD
WAITING FOR SOMETHING OUTSIDE OF
THEMSELVES TO SAVE THEM OR TO
GIVE MEANING TO WHAT THEY'RE
GOING THROUGH AND THEY CAN'T
REMEMBER WHAT THEIR PURPOSE IN
REMEMBER WHAT THEIR
PURPOSE IN LIFE IS.
LIFE IS. >> WHAT
ARE WE DOING HERE?
>> WHAT ARE WE DOING HERE?
THAT IS THE QUESTION.
THAT IS THE QUESTION. >>
Brown: IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
>> Brown: IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
PERFORMANCE, PIERCE SAYS, HE
FELT A NEW CALL TO ACTION.
FELT A NEW CALL TO ACTION. >>
I TURNED TO THE AUDIENCE AND,
>> I TURNED TO THE AUDIENCE AND,
ALMOST BREAKING CHARACTER, I
SAID "LET US DO SOMETHING WHILE
SAID "LET US DO SOMETHING
WHILE WE HAVE THE CHANCE."
WE HAVE THE CHANCE." AT
THIS MOMENT, AT THIS PLACE,
AT THIS MOMENT, AT THIS PLACE,
THIS HALLOWED GROUND WHERE SO
MANY PEOPLE DIED, WE OWE IT TO
MANY PEOPLE DIED,
WE OWE IT TO THEM.
THEM. LET'S DO SOMETHING
WHILE WE HAVE
LET'S DO SOMETHING WHILE
WE HAVE THE CHANCE."
THE CHANCE." >> Brown:
PIERCE FORMED THE
>> Brown: PIERCE FORMED THE
PONCHARTRAIN PARK COMMUNITY
VELDEOPMENT ASSOCIATION, A NON-
VELDEOPMENT ASSOCIATION, A
NON- PROFIT GROUP THAT BUILDS
PROFIT GROUP THAT BUILDS
AFFORDABLE HOMES ON ABANDONED
AFFORDABLE HOMES ON
ABANDONED PROPERTIES.
PROPERTIES. SO FAR HE'S
BUILT 40, INCLUDING
SO FAR HE'S BUILT 40, INCLUDING
ONE FOR HIMSELF, WITH PLANS FOR
ONE FOR HIMSELF, WITH
PLANS FOR ANOTHER 85.
ANOTHER 85. HE'S
ALSO OPENED FOUR
HE'S ALSO OPENED FOUR
CONVENIENCE STORES AROUND THE
CONVENIENCE STORES
AROUND THE CITY.
CITY. BUT AN ATTEMPT
TO START A FULL-
BUT AN ATTEMPT TO START A
FULL- SIZED MARKET IN AN AREA
SIZED MARKET IN AN AREA
CONSIDERED A FOOD DESERT FAILED.
>> THE MARGIN IS VERY THIN IN
THE GROCERY STORE BUSINESS.
I THINK IT WAS A DIFFICULT
LOCATION, BUT WE HAVEN'T GIVEN
LOCATION, BUT WE HAVEN'T
GIVEN UP ON IT.
UP ON IT. I'M GOING
TO KEEP GOING YOU
I'M GOING TO KEEP
GOING YOU KNOW.
KNOW. >> Brown:
YOU'RE AN ACTOR WHO'S
>> Brown: YOU'RE AN ACTOR WHO'S
LEARNING TO BE A BUSINESS MAN,
LEARNING TO BE A
BUSINESS MAN, HUH?
HUH? >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. >> Brown:
WITH THE SUCCESS AND
>> Brown: WITH THE SUCCESS AND
SOMETIMES FAILURE THAT COMES
SOMETIMES FAILURE
THAT COMES WITH THAT.
WITH THAT. >> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. LISTEN,
WHEN YOU SUCCEED, IT IS
LISTEN, WHEN YOU SUCCEED, IT IS
SWEETER WHEN YOU KNOW YOU HAVE
SWEETER WHEN YOU KNOW
YOU HAVE FAILED.
FAILED. >> Brown: THE
LEARNING GOES ON.
>> Brown: THE LEARNING GOES ON.
AND PIERCE CITES CONTINUING
BATTLES WITH WHAT HE SEES AS THE
BUREAUCRACY, INEFFICIENCY, AND
EVEN CORRUPTION OF VARIOUS
GOVERNMENT ENTITIES.
GOVERNMENT ENTITIES. STILL,
TEN YEARS AFTER KATRINA,
STILL, TEN YEARS AFTER KATRINA,
HIS OLD HOME, PONTCHARTRAIN
PARK, HAS SEEN A RESURGENCE.
>> WHAT WAS GREAT ABOUT THIS
>> WHAT WAS GREAT ABOUT
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD IS BACK.
NEIGHBORHOOD IS BACK. WHICH
IS FAMILIES, CHURCHES,
WHICH IS FAMILIES, CHURCHES,
HOMES FILLED WITH HOMEOWNERS.
HOMES FILLED WITH
HOMEOWNERS. SCHOOLS.
SCHOOLS. ALL THE STUFF
THAT MAKES FOR A
ALL THE STUFF THAT MAKES FOR A
WONDERFUL LIFE AND GIVES PEOPLE
A SHOT TO BUILD NOT ONLY
FINANCES, BUT LOVE AND FAMILY
AND A SENSE OF COMMUNITY.
AND A SENSE OF COMMUNITY. >>
Brown: A COMMUNITY THAT HAS
>> Brown: A COMMUNITY
THAT HAS SURVIVED.
SURVIVED. AND EVEN THRIVED.
AND EVEN THRIVED. FROM
PONCHARTRAIN PARK, NEW
FROM PONCHARTRAIN PARK, NEW
ORLEANS, I'M JEFFREY BROWN FOR
ORLEANS, I'M JEFFREY BROWN
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: NOW, RAISING THE
TODAY THE NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD RULED A LARGE
RELATIONS BOARD RULED A
LARGE COMPANY COULD BE HELD
COMPANY COULD BE HELD
RESPONSIBLE FOR LABOR DECISION
HELD BY A CONTRACTOR IT HIRES,
EVEN IF IT DOESN'T DIRECTLY
SUPERVISE THE EMPLOYEE.
SUPERVISE THE EMPLOYEE. THAT
COULD MEAN UNIONS MAY BE
THAT COULD MEAN UNIONS MAY BE
ABLE TO NEGOTIATE DIRECTLY WITH
McDONALD'S CORPORATION, FOR
EXAMPLE, INSTEAD OF JUST ITS
EXAMPLE, INSTEAD OF
JUST ITS FRANCHISES.
FRANCHISES. THAT WIN
COMES AFTER ANOTHER
THAT WIN COMES AFTER ANOTHER
RECENT VICTORY OVER A WAGE HIKE
AT WASHINGTON'S SEATTLE TACOMA
AT WASHINGTON'S SEATTLE
TACOMA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT. THE
STATE'S SUPREME COURT RULED
THE STATE'S SUPREME COURT RULED
LAST WEEK THAT EMPLOYERS MUST
PAY WORKERS $15 AN HOUR.
AIRPORT BUSINESSES HAD
CHALLENGED A 2013 REFERENDUM.
OUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN HAS UPDATED HIS REPORT.
HERE'S A REPRIEVE OF HIS
EMMY-NOMINATED STORY.
EMMY-NOMINATED STORY. IT'S
PART OF OUR WEEKLY STORY,
IT'S PART OF OUR WEEKLY STORY,
MAKING SENSE, WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWS HOUR.
THURSDAY ON THE NEWS HOUR. >>
Reporter: A LOT WAS AT STAKE
>> Reporter: A LOT WAS AT STAKE
LAST NOVEMBER IN SEATAC,
WASHINGTON, HOME OF THE SEATTLE-
TACOMA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, AS
LOCAL CITIZENS DECIDED THE FATE
OF A PROPOSITION TO JACK UP THE
MINIMUM WAGE THERE TO $15 ANUR.
FOR THOUSANDS OF WORKERS, THE
PROMISE OF A HUGE PAY HIKE, 63%
IF THEY WERE MAKING THE STATE
MINIMUM OF $9.19 AN HOUR, PLUS
PAID SICK LEAVE, WHICH PROMISED
TO BE A BENEFIT FOR THE FLYING
TO BE A BENEFIT FOR THE
FLYING PUBLIC AS WELL.
PUBLIC AS WELL. >> EVERY
EMPLOYEE THAT I WORK
>> EVERY EMPLOYEE THAT I WORK
WITH COMES TO WORK SICK BECAUSE
THEY HAVE TO PUT FOOD ON THE
THEY HAVE TO PUT
FOOD ON THE TABLE.
TABLE. >> IMAGINE
YOU'RE FLYING ON AN
>> IMAGINE YOU'RE
FLYING ON AN AIRPLANE.
AIRPLANE. THE WORKER
WHO CLEAN UP THE
THE WORKER WHO CLEAN UP THE
AIRPLANE BEFORE YOU FLY, HE WAS
SICK AND HE'S CLEANING THE
SICK AND HE'S CLEANING
THE AIRPLANE.
AIRPLANE. IMAGINE
YOU EATING ON THAT
IMAGINE YOU EATING ON
THAT TABLE, YOU KNOW?
TABLE, YOU KNOW? >>
Reporter: BUT HIGHER COSTS
>> Reporter: BUT HIGHER COSTS
WOULD BOOMERANG AGAINST LOW-
INCOME WORKERS, BUSINESS
SPOKESMAN MAXFORD NELSEN
SPOKESMAN MAXFORD
NELSEN INSISTED.
INSISTED. >> THE WORKERS
WHO RETAIN THEIR
>> THE WORKERS WHO RETAIN THEIR
JOBS MIGHT BE BETTER OFF, BUT AN
JOBS MIGHT BE BETTER OFF, BUT
AN INCREASED NUMBER OF OTHER
INCREASED NUMBER OF OTHER
WORKERS LOSE THEIR JOBS
WORKERS LOSE THEIR
JOBS ENTIRELY.
ENTIRELY. >> Reporter:
A BITTER, COSTLY
>> Reporter: A BITTER, COSTLY
CAMPAIGN ENSUED, A RECOUNT, AND,
IN THE END, THE AYES HAD IT BY
IN THE END, THE AYES
HAD IT BY 77 VOTES.
77 VOTES. BUT, ON
DECISION DAY, ALASKA
BUT, ON DECISION DAY, ALASKA
AIRLINES, THE MAIN OPPONENT OF
AIRLINES, THE MAIN OPPONENT
OF THE $15 MINIMUM WAGE
THE $15 MINIMUM WAGE
PROPOSITION, FILED A LAWSUIT IN
COUNTY COURT, ARGUING THAT A
CITY CAN'T SET ORDINANCES FOR AN
CITY CAN'T SET ORDINANCES FOR
AN AIRPORT OPERATING WITHIN ITS
AIRPORT OPERATING
WITHIN ITS BORDERS.
BORDERS. >> UNFORTUNATELY,
A COUNTY JUDGE
>> UNFORTUNATELY, A COUNTY JUDGE
AGREED WITH ALASKA AIRLINES AND
TOOK AWAY THE BENEFITS FOR ABOUT
4,700 WORKERS AT SEATAC AIRPORT.
>> Reporter: HEATHER WEINER IS
SPOKESPERSON FOR THE PRO-$15
SPOKESPERSON FOR THE
PRO-$15 MINIMUM WAGE SIDE.
MINIMUM WAGE SIDE. >> I'M
BEING A LITTLE CHEEKY
>> I'M BEING A LITTLE CHEEKY
WHEN I SAY THIS, BUT IT'S LIKE A
MINI-BANGLADESH ER TOVHERE RIGHT
MINI-BANGLADESH ER
TOVHERE RIGHT NOW.
NOW. YOU KNOW, WE
HAVE GOT HIGH-END
YOU KNOW, WE HAVE GOT HIGH-END
PRODUCTS AND AIRFARE, AND PEOPLE
WITH HIGH INCOME FLYING IN AND
OUT OF SEATAC, 30 MILLION PEOPLE
OUT OF SEATAC, 30
MILLION PEOPLE A YEAR.
A YEAR. AND YET THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE
AND YET THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
MOVING THE BAGS, PUSHING THE
WHEELCHAIRS, SERVING THE FOOD,
SELLING THE MAGAZINES AREN'T
ABLE TO SUPPORT THEIR FAMILIES.
IT'S REALLY A TRAGEDY.
IT'S REALLY A TRAGEDY. >>
Reporter: JUST OUTSIDE THE
>> Reporter: JUST OUTSIDE THE
AIRPORT, AT SEATAC'S LARGER
HOTELS AND PARKING LOTS, SOME
1,600 WORKERS DID GET THEIR
1,600 WORKERS DID
GET THEIR RAISES.
RAISES. BUT FOR THE
5,000 OR SO WORKERS
BUT FOR THE 5,000 OR SO WORKERS
ON AIRPORT PROPERTY, THE COURT
DECISION, WHICH WAS BEING
APPEALED, WAS A BODY BLOW.
APPEALED, WAS A BODY BLOW. >>
HEARING THIS, MY HEART JUST
>> HEARING THIS, MY
HEART JUST SUNK.
SUNK. I FEEL THAT
NOW I CAN NEVER GET
I FEEL THAT NOW I CAN
NEVER GET AHEAD.
AHEAD. >> Reporter:
JENAY ZIMMERMAN,
>> Reporter: JENAY ZIMMERMAN,
WH MANOAGES TAXIS AT THE
AIRPORT, STILL MADE JUST $11.90
AIRPORT, STILL MADE
JUST $11.90 AN HOUR.
AN HOUR. BAGGAGE
HANDLER JOSHUA VINA OF
BAGGAGE HANDLER JOSHUA VINA OF
MENZIES AVIATION, WHICH SERVICES
SEVERAL AIRLINES HERE, INCLUDING
ALASKA, STILL EARNED A MERE
ALASKA, STILL EARNED A
MERE $9.50 AN HOUR.
$9.50 AN HOUR. >> IT WAS
ACTUALLY GOING TO HELP
>> IT WAS ACTUALLY GOING TO HELP
ME PAY A LOT OF THINGS OFF.
ME PAY A LOT OF THINGS OFF. IT
WAS GOING TO HELP ME HA AVE
IT WAS GOING TO HELP ME HA AVE
LOT MORE THINGS TO GIVE TO MY
LOT MORE THINGS TO GIVE
TO MY WIFE AND MY SON.
WIFE AND MY SON. AND I'M
BARELY SUPPORTING THEM
AND I'M BARELY SUPPORTING
THEM RIGHT NOW WITH THIS.
RIGHT NOW WITH THIS. >>
Reporter: A DECADE AGO,
>> Reporter: A DECADE AGO,
ALASKA AIRLINES' RAMP WORKERS
HAD A UNION CONTRACT PAYING OVER
$20 AN HOUR, PLUS BENEFITS, IF
$20 AN HOUR, PLUS BENEFITS,
IF YOU HAD WORKED THERE A FEW
YOU HAD WORKED
THERE A FEW YEARS.
YEARS. BUT WHEN WE
VISITED, WE SAW SOME
BUT WHEN WE VISITED, WE SAW SOME
CURRENT WORKERS ON A FREE FOOD
CURRENT WORKERS ON A FREE
FOOD LINE AT CHURCH.
LINE AT CHURCH. HEATHER
WEINER WAS EAGER TO TELL
HEATHER WEINER WAS
EAGER TO TELL US WHY.
US WHY. >> IN 2005,
ALASKA AIRLINES
>> IN 2005, ALASKA
AIRLINES FIRED 500 PEOPLE.
FIRED 500 PEOPLE. THEY
JUST LAID THEM OFF WITHOUT
THEY JUST LAID THEM OFF WITHOUT
ANY KIND OF NOTICE, AND REPLACED
THOSE PEOPLE WITH LOW-WAGE JOBS
THOSE PEOPLE WITH LOW-WAGE
JOBS AT MENZIES AVIATION.
AT MENZIES AVIATION. MENZIES
AVIATION IS NOW THE
MENZIES AVIATION IS NOW THE
CORPORATION THAT HANDLES MORE
THAN HALF OF THE BAGS AND OTHER
SERVICES FOR ALASKA AND AT
SERVICES FOR ALASKA AND
AT SEATAC AIRPORT.
SEATAC AIRPORT. AND,
MEANWHILE, ALASKA AIRLINES'
AND, MEANWHILE, ALASKA
AIRLINES' PROFITS ARE WAY UP.
PROFITS ARE WAY UP. THEY
REPORTED $500 MILLION IN
THEY REPORTED $500 MILLION IN
PROFITS IN 2013, AND THE WAY
THEY DID THAT WAS IN PART BY
MAKING SURE THAT THE PEOPLE WHO
WORK FOR THEM DON'T MAKE ANY
MORE THAN MINIMUM WAGE.
MORE THAN MINIMUM WAGE. >>
Reporter: THE CONNECTION
>> Reporter: THE CONNECTION
BETWEEN WAGES AND PROFITS IS
PRETTY OBVIOUS, SAYS SEATTLE
VENTURE CAPITALIST NICK HANAUER,
AN OUTSPOKEN ADVOCATE FOR THE
AN OUTSPOKEN ADVOCATE FOR
THE $15 MINIMUM WAGE.
$15 MINIMUM WAGE. >>
CLEARLY, THE C.E.O. AND
>> CLEARLY, THE C.E.O. AND
SENIOR MANAGERS OF ALASKA
AIRLINES, AND THEIR BOARD OF
AIRLINES, AND THEIR BOARD
OF DIRECTORS, AND THEIR
DIRECTORS, AND THEIR
SHAREHOLDERS WOULD PREFER THAT
MOST OF THE VALUE CREATED BY
THAT ENTERPRISE GOES TO THEM,
AND ALMOST NONE OF THE VALUE
CREATED BY THAT ENTERPRISE GOES
CREATED BY THAT ENTERPRISE
GOES TO THEIR WORKERS.
TO THEIR WORKERS. >>
Reporter: ALASKA AIRLINES
>> Reporter: ALASKA AIRLINES
DECLINED OUR INTERVIEW REQUEST,
BUT SENT A WRITTEN STATEMENT:
"ALASKA IS PROFITABLE NOW, BUT
THE PAST DECADE HAS BEEN THE
MOST CHALLENGING IN THE HISTORY
MOST CHALLENGING IN THE
HISTORY OF AIRLINES.
OF AIRLINES. IN ORDER
TO SURVIVE, WE TURNED
IN ORDER TO SURVIVE, WE TURNED
TO AIRPORT-BASED CONTRACTORS
THAT WORK FOR MULTIPLE AIRLINES
AND PROVIDE ECONOMIES OF SCALE.
WHILE WE CAN'T DICTATE THE LABOR
RELATIONS PRACTICES OF OUR
BUSINESS PARTNERS, WE DO STRIVE
TO WORK CLOSELY WITH THEM ON PAY
TO WORK CLOSELY WITH THEM ON
PAY RATES THAT REFLECT THE JOB
RATES THAT REFLECT
THE JOB MARKET".
MARKET". WE TRIED
TO REACH ALASKA'S
WE TRIED TO REACH ALASKA'S
BUSINESS PARTNERS, AND OTHER
SEATAC AIRPORT CONTRACTORS, 21
COMPANIES IN ALL, NONE OF WHICH
COMPANIES IN ALL, NONE OF
WHICH AGREED TO AN INTERVIEW.
AGREED TO AN INTERVIEW. >>
I APPRECIATE THE CALL, BUT
>> I APPRECIATE THE CALL,
BUT WE'RE GOING TO PASS.
WE'RE GOING TO PASS. AIRPORT
EMPLOYERS COMPLYING WITH
AIRPORT EMPLOYERS COMPLYING WITH
THE LAW TOOK A PASS, THOUGH SOME
LAMENTED IT TO LOCAL REPORTERS.
>> THE CEDARBROOK LODGE SAID
THAT THEY WERE GOING TO HAVE TO
LAY OFF EMPLOYEES, AND INSTEAD
THEY'RE DOUBLING THEIR ROOM
THEY'RE DOUBLING THEIR
ROOM CAPACITY AND HIRING.
CAPACITY AND HIRING. >>
Reporter: UNION LEADER DAVID
>> Reporter: UNION LEADER DAVID
ROLF WAS A PRIME MOVER BEHIND
ROLF WAS A PRIME MOVER
BEHIND PROPOSITION ONE.
PROPOSITION ONE. >> I
THINK THERE WAS A LOT OF
>> I THINK THERE WAS A LOT OF
RHETORIC DESIGNED TO SCARE
PEOPLE LEADING UP TO THAT
ELECTION, AND SO FAR ALL OF THE
DOOM AND GLOOM HAS NOT PROVEN
DOOM AND GLOOM HAS
NOT PROVEN CORRECT.
CORRECT. >> Reporter:
MEANWHILE, AS BOTH
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, AS BOTH
SIDES AWAITED THE STATE SUPREME
COURT'S RULING ON APPEAL, SOME
SEATAC AIRPORT WORKERS WEREN'T
WAITING AROUND FOR JUDICIAL
WAITING AROUND FOR
JUDICIAL RELIEF.
RELIEF. WORKERS
LIKE HANI OSMAN, A
WORKERS LIKE HANI OSMAN, A
DRIVER AT SEATAC AIRPORT'S AVIS
BUDGET RENT A CAR, WHICH THE
TEAMSTERS RECENTLY SUCCEEDED IN
ORGANIZING WITH THE HELP OF THIS
ORGANIZING WITH THE HELP
OF THIS SOMALI REFUGEE.
SOMALI REFUGEE. >> WE
DON'T GET VACATION.
>> WE DON'T GET VACATION.
WE DON'T GET SICK CALL.
WE DON'T GET SICK CALL. WE
DON'T GET NOTHING, AND THAT'S
WE DON'T GET NOTHING, AND THAT'S
WHY WE FOUGHT FOR THE UNION.
WHY WE FOUGHT FOR THE UNION. >>
Reporter: WE MET OSMAN AT THE
>> Reporter: WE MET OSMAN AT THE
SEATAC TEAMSTERS HALL, WHERE SHE
AND OTHERS WERE VOTING ON THEIR
FIRST UNION CONTRACT, WHICH
WOULD GUARANTEE HEALTH CARE,
RETIREMENT, VACATION, SICK
LEAVE, A GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE,
AND $15 AN HOUR IF THE LOWER
COURT DECISION WERE OVERTURNED.
ARE YOU REALLY TET THE
ARE YOU REALLY TET THE FACT
THAT YOU HAVE NOW GOTTEN A
FACT THAT YOU HAVE
NOW GOTTEN A UNION?
UNION? >> WE'RE SO
HAPPY ABOUT IT.
>> WE'RE SO HAPPY ABOUT IT.
EVERYBODY'S SO HAPPY ABOUT IT.
AND NOW WE'RE GETTING SOME
AND NOW WE'RE GETTING
SOME RESULTS.
RESULTS. >> Reporter:
WHAT KIND OF
>> Reporter: WHAT
KIND OF RESULTS?
RESULTS? >> FOR EXAMPLE,
IF WE HIT A CAR,
>> FOR EXAMPLE, IF WE HIT A
CAR, WE USED TO GET SUSPENDED.
WE USED TO GET SUSPENDED. YOU
MOVE LIKE 100 CARS A DAY.
YOU MOVE LIKE 100 CARS A DAY.
AND IF YOU SCRATCH A LITTLE CAR,
YOU GET SUSPENDED FOR TWO WEEKS
YOU GET SUSPENDED FOR
TWO WEEKS WITHOUT PAY.
WITHOUT PAY. >>
Reporter: REALLY?
>> Reporter: REALLY? >> YES.
>> YES. AND NOW WE
DON'T HAVE TO SEE
AND NOW WE DON'T HAVE
TO SEE THAT AGAIN.
THAT AGAIN. >> Reporter:
WHICH BRINGS US TO
>> Reporter: WHICH BRINGS US TO
ONE FINAL NOTE: THE COMPANY THAT
DIRECTLY EMPLOYS HANI OSMAN AND
COLLEAGUES ISN'T AVIS BUDGET.
IT'S THE G.C.A. SERVICES GROUP.
>> G.C.A. IS A CONTRACTOR THAT
HAS 30,000 EMPLOYEES AROUND THE
HAS 30,000 EMPLOYEES
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. THEY ARE
OWNED BY BLACKSTONE,
THEY ARE OWNED BY BLACKSTONE,
WHICH IS A MAJOR WALL STREET
INVESTMENT GROUP, WHICH IS WORTH
HUNDREDS OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
>> Reporter: THAT PROMPTED A
>> Reporter: THAT PROMPTED
A LAST QUESTION FOR
LAST QUESTION FOR
MULTIMILLIONAIRE INVESTOR NICK
HANAUER ABOUT HIS FELLOW ONE-
HUNDREDTH OF THE ONE PERCENTERS.
HOW DO YOU PERSONALLY FEEL WHEN
YOU HEAR THAT A COMPANY LIKE
BLACKSTONE HAS TAKEN WORKERS WHO
USED TO WORK FOR AVIS AND BUDGET
USED TO WORK FOR AVIS AND
BUDGET BACK TO MINIMUM WAGE,
BACK TO MINIMUM WAGE,
SUBCONTRACTED?
SUBCONTRACTED? IT'S A
MORAL ABOMINATION.
IT'S A MORAL ABOMINATION. BUT
THE TRUTH IS THAT THEY MAY
BUT THE TRUTH IS THAT THEY MAY
HAVE FELT THAT THEY NEEDED TO DO
THAT BECAUSE THEIR COMPETITOR
HAD ALREADY DONE IT AND THEY
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO COMPETE ON
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO COMPETE
ON PRICE IF THEY HADN'T.
PRICE IF THEY HADN'T. >>
Reporter: THE SEEMINGLY
>> Reporter: THE SEEMINGLY
INEXORABLE PRESSURE OF
COMPETITION, IN OTHER WORDS,
WHICH IS WHY THE WORKERS OF
SEATAC HAD ORGANIZED, THEY
EXPLAINED, TO COUNTER WITH
PRESSURE OF THEIR OWN.
PRESSURE OF THEIR OWN. THIS
IS ECONOMICSORRE CSPONDENT
THIS IS ECONOMICSORRE CSPONDENT
PAUL SOLMAN, REPORTING FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR FROM SEATAC,
PBS NEWSHOUR FROM
SEATAC, WASHINGTON.
>> Ifill: TWENTY YEARS AFTER ITS
GENOCIDE, WHICH SAW THE DEATHS
OF HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE, RWANDA HAS BY MANY
ACCOUNTS SEEN A REMARKABLE
ACCOUNTS SEEN A
REMARKABLE RECOVERY.
RECOVERY. TONIGHT, WE
TAKE A LOOK AT THE
TONIGHT, WE TAKE A LOOK AT THE
NEW GENERATION LEADING THE
CHARGE, USING NEW TECHNOLOGY TO
HELP THE EAST AFRICAN NATION
MOVE BEYOND ITS SCARS.
MOVE BEYOND ITS SCARS. THE
NEWSHOUR'S P.J. TOBIA HAS
THE NEWSHOUR'S P.J. TOBIA
HAS OUR STORY, PRODUCED IN
OUR STORY, PRODUCED IN
COLLABORATION WITH THE PULITZER
CENTER ON CRISIS REPORTING.
CENTER ON CRISIS REPORTING. A
WARNING: THE STORY CONTAINS
A WARNING: THE STORY CONTAINS
SOME GRAPHIC IMAGES.
SOME GRAPHIC IMAGES. >>
Reporter: BRINGING MILK THE
>> Reporter: BRINGING MILK THE
MARKET IN RWANDA, HARDER THAN IT
MARKET IN RWANDA,
HARDER THAN IT SOUNDS.
SOUNDS. FARMERS MILK
THEIR COWS AND HAND
FARMERS MILK THEIR COWS AND
HAND IT OFF TO MIDDLEMEN.
IT OFF TO MIDDLEMEN. NEXT
STOP, THE LOCAL COLLECTION
NEXT STOP, THE LOCAL COLLECTION
CENTER, USUALLY ON THE BACK OF A
CENTER, USUALLY ON THE
BACK OF A BICYCLE.
BICYCLE. FROM THERE IT'S OFF TO
FROM THERE IT'S OFF TO
FACTORIES, PROCESSORS AND OTHER
FACTORIES, PROCESSORS AND
OTHER WHOLESALE BUYERS.
WHOLESALE BUYERS. AT
LEAST THAT'S HOW IT IS
AT LEAST THAT'S HOW IT
IS SUPPOSED TO WORK. i
SUPPOSED TO WORK. i >>
SOMETIMES THEY DELIVER THE
>> SOMETIMES THEY DELIVER THE
MILK TO THE TRANSPORTER, THE
TRANSPORTER MAY NOT TAKE ALL THE
TRANSPORTER MAY NOT TAKE ALL
THE MILK HE COLLECTED FROM THE
MILK HE COLLECTED FROM THE
FARMER TO THE COLLECTION CENTER.
>> Reporter: THIS MAN RUNS A
MILK COOPERATIVE IN NORTHWEST
RWANDA NEAR THE BOARDER WITH
RWANDA NEAR THE
BOARDER WITH UGANDA.
UGANDA. SOMETIMES
MIDDLEMEN FUDGE THE
SOMETIMES MIDDLEMEN FUDGE THE
NUMBERS, WHILE OTHER TIMES A
PORTION OF THE MILK MAY GET LOST
PORTION OF THE MILK MAY
GET LOST IN TRANSIT.
IN TRANSIT. >> WE HAVE
THE ASK WHO TOOK THE
>> WE HAVE THE ASK WHO TOOK
THE MILK, WHERE IS THE MILK?
MILK, WHERE IS THE MILK?
WHERE DID HE PUT IT?
WHERE DID HE PUT IT? >>
Reporter: BACK IN THE
>> Reporter: BACK IN THE
CAPITAL KIGALI, WALTER CITIZEN
IN K LAB, ONE OF RWANDA'S FIRST
IN K LAB, ONE OF RWANDA'S
FIRST TECHNOLOGY HUBS, WITH A
TECHNOLOGY HUBS,
WITH A SOLUTION.
SOLUTION. ARMED WITH
AN I.T. DEGREE FROM
ARMED WITH AN I.T. DEGREE FROM
ONE OF RWANDA'S TOP UNIVERSITY,
THE 26-YEAR-OLD RUNS A SOFTWARE
THE 26-YEAR-OLD RUNS A
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT COMPANY.
DEVELOPMENT COMPANY. >>
MY GRANDFATHER WAS FROM A
>> MY GRANDFATHER WAS
FROM A FARM FAMILY.
FARM FAMILY. >>
Reporter: LAST YEAR THE
>> Reporter: LAST YEAR THE
GOVERNMENT ASKED FOR TECH
GOVERNMENT ASKED FOR
TECH SOLUTIONS.
SOLUTIONS. HE HEARD THE CALL.
HE HEARD THE CALL. TO
HELP MAKE MILK COLLECTION
TO HELP MAKE MILK COLLECTION
MORE EFFICIENT, HE CREATED A
TEXT MESSAGE-BASED SYSTEM THAT
ALLOWS FARMERS TO KEEP BETTER
TABS ON THEIR PRODUCT.
TABS ON THEIR PRODUCT. WHEN
THEIR MILK ARRIVES SAFELY
WHEN THEIR MILK ARRIVES SAFELY
AT THE COLLECTION CENTER, THE
AT THE COLLECTION CENTER,
THE FARMER GETS A TEXT.
FARMER GETS A TEXT.
FARMERS CAN ALSO USE THE
PLATFORM TO ORDER FEED OR CHECK
DISEASE ALERTS ALL FROM THEIR
DISEASE ALERTS ALL
FROM THEIR PHONE.
PHONE. >> Reporter:
OUR SYSTEM IS
>> Reporter: OUR SYSTEM IS
HELPING THE WHOLE CHAIN GET
HELPING THE WHOLE CHAIN
GET INFORMATION.
INFORMATION. IF THEY CAN
GET INFORMATION WHEN
IF THEY CAN GET
INFORMATION WHEN NEEDED.
NEEDED. >> Reporter:
HE WORKS WITH
>> Reporter: HE WORKS
WITH ABOUT 2,000 FARMERS.
ABOUT 2,000 FARMERS. HE
DREAMS OF REACHING MILLIONS
HE DREAMS OF REACHING MILLIONS
MORE ACROSS AFRICA AND TURNING A
MORE ACROSS AFRICA AND TURNING
A PROFIT ALONG THE WAY.
PROFIT ALONG THE WAY. HE
CHARGES FOR EACH TEXT MESSAGE
HE CHARGES FOR EACH TEXT MESSAGE
SENT AND EVERY GALLON OF MILK
SENT AND EVERY GALLON
OF MILK REGISTERED.
REGISTERED. >> WE ARE
LOOKING AT EXPANDING
>> WE ARE LOOKING AT EXPANDING
AND WE HOPE WITHIN TWO MONTHS WE
WILL START MAKING ENOUGH MONEY
FOR SUPPORTING OUR OVERHEAD
FOR SUPPORTING OUR
OVERHEAD COSTS.
COSTS. >> Reporter:
SARAH LEADHAM
>> Reporter: SARAH LEADHAM
DIRECTS THE BUSINESS ING BAITER
DIRECTS THE BUSINESS
ING BAITER IN KIGALI.
IN KIGALI. SHE WORKS
WITH DOZENS OF YOUNG
SHE WORKS WITH DOZENS OF YOUNG
RWANDAN ENTREPRENEURS, FROM PIG
RWANDAN ENTREPRENEURS, FROM
PIG FARMERS TO DEVELOPERS.
FARMERS TO DEVELOPERS. >>
NO PLACE STRONGLY EQUATES
>> NO PLACE STRONGLY EQUATES
ENTREPRENEURSHIP WITH PATRIOTISM
ENTREPRENEURSHIP WITH
PATRIOTISM AND NATION BUILDING.
AND NATION BUILDING. THE
FIRST THING OUT OF ALMOST
THE FIRST THING OUT OF ALMOST
ANY YOUNG PERSON'S MOUTH IS I
WANT TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE GROWTH
WANT TO CONTRIBUTE TO
THE GROWTH OF RWANDA.
OF RWANDA. >> Reporter:
THE 1994 GENOCIDE
>> Reporter: THE 1994
GENOCIDE DEVASTATED RWANDA.
DEVASTATED RWANDA. FOR
100 DAYS ETHNIC HUTU
FOR 100 DAYS ETHNIC HUTU
MILITIAS BRUTALLY TARGETED THE
MILITIAS BRUTALLY TARGETED
THE TUTSI MINORITY.
TUTSI MINORITY. AN ESTIMATED
ONE MILLION PEOPLE
AN ESTIMATED ONE MILLION
PEOPLE DIED IN TOTAL.
DIED IN TOTAL. >> THE
1994 GENOCIDE STILL
>> THE 1994 GENOCIDE STILL
AFFECTS MANY PEOPLE.
AFFECTS MANY PEOPLE. >>
Reporter: TODAY DOWNTOWN
>> Reporter: TODAY DOWNTOWN
KIGALI IS HOME TO HIGH-RISE
BUILDINGS AND HIGH-SPEED
INTERNET, BUT YOU PENGOPLE ARE
ENTERING THE WORKFORCE MUCH
FASTER THANWAND RA'S ECONOMY CAN
FASTER THANWAND RA'S
ECONOMY CAN ABSORB THEM.
ABSORB THEM. >> TODAY
WE CAN ONLY EMPLOY 4%.
>> TODAY WE CAN ONLY EMPLOY
4%. >> Reporter: JOHN ST.
>> Reporter: JOHN ST. CLAIRE
IS A MINISTER OF YOUTH
CLAIRE IS A MINISTER OF
YOUTH AND TECHNOLOGY.
AND TECHNOLOGY. THE RISE
IN ENTREPRENEURSHIP WAS
THE RISE IN ENTREPRENEURSHIP
WAS PLANNED.
PLANNED. BY 2009 CLASSES
WERE MANDATORY.
BY 2009 CLASSES WERE MANDATORY.
2 GOVERNMENT ALSO PROMOTES
ENTREPRENEURIALISM.
ENTREPRENEURIALISM. >>
ENTREPRENEURSHIP, A MINDSET
>> ENTREPRENEURSHIP, A MINDSET
AND A ENTREPRENEURIAL
ENVIRONMENT IS NOT PRESENT EVER
BY ANYONE THAT DECIDED TO MAKE
BY ANYONE THAT DECIDED
TO MAKE IT AVAILABLE.
IT AVAILABLE. >>
WE'LL FIND A WAY THE TRANSLATE
THAT IDEA INTO A BUSINESS.
>> Reporter: A FIFTH POINT,
IT'SEN CLEAR HOW MANY PEOPLE ARE
IT'SEN CLEAR HOW MANY PEOPLE
ARE ACTUALLY BENEFITING.
ACTUALLY BENEFITING. THE
AVERAGE RWANDA HOME STILL
THE AVERAGE RWANDA HOME STILL
LIVES ON LESS THAN $2 A DAY AND
ONLY ABOUT 20% OF HOMES HAVE
ONLY ABOUT 20% OF HOMES
HAVE ELECTRICITY.
ELECTRICITY. IN SHORT,
THE ENTREPRENEURSHIP
IN SHORT, THE ENTREPRENEURSHIP
PIPELINE IN RWANDA IS FULL OF
PIPELINE IN RWANDA
IS FULL OF KINKS.
KINKS. BACK AT K
LAB, WALTER PLUGS
BACK AT K LAB,
WALTER PLUGS AWAY.
AWAY. THE COOPERATIVE
RECENTLY AGREED
THE COOPERATIVE RECENTLY AGREED
TO ADOPT HIS SYSTEM, AND HE'S
GOT A GROUP OF NEW FARMERS TO
GOT A GROUP OF NEW
FARMERS TO TRAIN.
TRAIN. THIS WOMAN
OWNS THREE COWS AND
THIS WOMAN OWNS THREE COWS AND
IS EXCITED ABOUT THE MILK
IS EXCITED ABOUT THE
MILK TRACKING SYSTEM.
TRACKING SYSTEM. RELIABLE
DATA MIGHT EVEN HELP
RELIABLE DATA MIGHT EVEN
HELP HER GET A BANK LOAN.
HER GET A BANK LOAN. >> (
TRANSLATED): WE'RE GOING
>> (TRANSLATED): WE'RE
GOING TO KNOW HOW THE COWS ARE
DOING,
TO KNOW HOW THE COWS ARE DOING,
THE QUALITY OF THE MILK AND DO
SOME SORT OF ACCOUNT WITH HOW
MUCH MONEY WE'RE MAKING.
MUCH MONEY WE'RE MAKING. >>
Reporter: IT'S THE TYPE OF
>> Reporter: IT'S THE TYPE
OF IMPACT HE HOPED FOR.
IMPACT HE HOPED FOR. >>
WHEN SOMEONE TELLS ME THANK
>> WHEN SOMEONE TELLS ME THANK
YOU, I SEE THEY'RE MORE
MOTIVATED, THAT'S THE BEST
REWARD YOU CAN EXPECT WHEN
YOU'RE A ENTREPRENEUR.
YOU'RE A ENTREPRENEUR. >>
Reporter: WELL, THAT AND A
>> Reporter: WELL, THAT AND A
HEALTHY RETURN ON INVESTMENT.
FOR THE PBS NEWS HOUR, I'M P.J.
FOR THE PBS NEWS HOUR,
I'M P.J. TOBIA.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO OUR
WEEKLY FEATURE: "BRIEF BUT
>> Ifill: COVERAGE OF HURRICANE
KATRINA CONTINUES LATER TONIGHT
ON PBS WITH THE DOCUMENTARY
"KATRINA 10 YEARS AFTER: A
SECOND LIFE, A SECOND CHANCE."
PRODUCED BY LOUISIANA PUBLIC
BROADCASTING AND NARRATED BY
WENDELL PIERCE, THE FILM TAKES A
WENDELL PIERCE, THE FILM TAKES
A LOOKS AT THE RECOVERY OF NEW
LOOKS AT THE RECOVERY OF NEW
ORLEANS, BY FOCUSING ON
GRASSROOTS EFFORTS BY RESIDENTS
WHO ARE TRYING TO REBUILD THEIR
WHO ARE TRYING TO REBUILD
THEIR NEIGHBORHOODS.
NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> I CAME HERE
MANY, MANY YEARS
>> I CAME HERE MANY,
MANY YEARS AGO TO VISIT.
AGO TO VISIT. THE MINUTE
I SET FOOT HERE, I
THE MINUTE I SET FOOT
HERE, I KNEW I WAS HOME.
KNEW I WAS HOME. THE
CULTURE, THE PEOPLE, THE
THE CULTURE, THE PEOPLE, THE
FOOD, THERE'S NO OTHER PLACE
FOOD, THERE'S NO OTHER
PLACE LIKE IT REALLY.
LIKE IT REALLY. >> I JUST
REMEMBER BACK IN '05
>> I JUST REMEMBER BACK IN '05
WHEN KATRINA HAPPENED, MY FAMILY
HAD SOME REAL HARDSHIP, AND IT
HAD SOME REAL HARDSHIP,
AND IT WAS DEVASTATING.
WAS DEVASTATING. I
MEAN, IT WAS TERRIBLE.
I MEAN, IT WAS TERRIBLE. BUT
NOW COMING BACK, IT'S LIKE
BUT NOW COMING BACK, IT'S
LIKE THE CITY IS REBUILT.
THE CITY IS REBUILT.
IT'S REBIRTHED.
IT'S REBIRTHED. IT'S A
WHOLE BRAND-NEW CITY.
IT'S A WHOLE BRAND-NEW
CITY. IT'S AMAZING.
IT'S AMAZING. >> IN
MANY WAYS THE PEOPLE OF
>> IN MANY WAYS THE PEOPLE OF
NEW ORLEANS HAVE ACHIEVED WHAT
SEEMED ALMOST UNIMAGINABLE A
SEEMED ALMOST UNIMAGINABLE
A DECADE AGO.
DECADE AGO. THE
RESURRECTION OF ONE OF
THE RESURRECTION OF ONE OF
AMERICA'S MOST BELOVED CITIES.
IN 2014, TOURISTS SPENT 6.8
BILLION DOLLARS IN NEW ORLEANS,
MORE THAN ANY OTHER YEAR BEFORE
OR AFTER HURRICANE KATRINA.
OR AFTER HURRICANE KATRINA. BUT
NEW ORLEANS ISN'T JUST PLACE
BUT NEW ORLEANS ISN'T
JUST PLACE TO VISIT.
TO VISIT. FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE HERE,
FOR THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE HERE,
TEN YEARS IS NOT VERY LONG AND
THE SO-CALLED ROAD HOME TO NEW
ORLEANS HAS BEEN ROUGHER FOR
ORLEANS HAS BEEN ROUGHER
FOR SOME THAN FOR OTHERS.
SOME THAN FOR OTHERS. >> I
JUST WENT EVERYWHERE TRYING
>> I JUST WENT EVERYWHERE
TRYING THE GET HELP.
THE GET HELP. IT SEEMED
LIKE THERE WAS NO HELP
IT SEEMED LIKE THERE
WAS NO HELP ANYWHERE.
ANYWHERE. >> MANY OF
KATRINA'S SURVIVORS
>> MANY OF KATRINA'S SURVIVORS
WILL NEVER RETURN TO NEW
ORLEANS, BUT OTHERS, BOTH
LONG-TIME AND NEW ARRIVALS, HAVE
COME HERE TOGETHER, DETERMINED
TO REBUILD THEIR CITY.
TO REBUILD THEIR CITY. IT MAY
BE BETTER THAN BEFORE, IF
IT MAY BE BETTER THAN BEFORE,
IF THEY CAN, BECAUSE IT'S HOME.
THEY CAN, BECAUSE IT'S HOME.
>> IT WAS REALLY NECESSARY FOR
US TO REBUILD OUR LIVES TO DO
THE THINGS THAT WOULD MAKE IT
THE THINGS THAT WOULD
MAKE IT HOME AGAIN.
HOME AGAIN. WELL, BASICALLY
EVERYTHING AFTER
WELL, BASICALLY EVERYTHING AFTER
KATRINA IS A SECOND LIFE.
IT'S NOT ABOUT WHAT WE WENT
THROUGH IN TEN YEARS, IT'S ABOUT
THE FACT THAT I'M HERE TEN YEARS
AFTER AND I CAN STILL CELEBRATE
AND I CAN STILL BE HAPPY.
>> Ifill: LOVE THE MUSIC.
>> Ifill: LOVE THE MUSIC. YOU
CAN TUNE IN TO WATCH THE
YOU CAN TUNE IN TO WATCH THE
FULL DOCUMENTARY LATER ON PBS.
THAT'S THE "NEWSHOUR" FOR
THAT'S THE "NEWSHOUR"
FOR TONIGHT.
TONIGHT. I'M GWEN IFILL.
I'M GWEN IFILL. >>
Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
>> Woodruff: AND
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WOODRUFF. JOIN US
ONLINE AND AGAIN RIGHT
JOIN US ONLINE AND AGAIN RIGHT
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
"NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND GOOD
"NEWSHOUR," THANK
YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.